good here we go three two live boom
we're live gentlemen Joe right Fred Hey
good to be here good see you guys it's
happenin not much were in sunny
California yeah it's too close to the
Sun a little bit yeah barbecued over the
last week and a half I've been hiding in
a hotel for six days how proper that
we're here to talk about surviving the
apocalypse a your book is Joe beef
surviving the apocalypse a cookbook for
surviving the apocalypse what is that
what's the purpose of the the title just
a goof we haven't written a book in
years you know we I don't think we
really wanted to write a second book
when we started getting a bit of
pressure to write a second one we kind
of you know laid down the gauntlet to
the editors and said we're gonna write
what we want are you in or you out and
they said well you know show us a little
bit of the framework of that this is
gonna be I said I want to talk I mean no
cooking doesn't define me or Fred it's
not all that we do like it's you know
you see some people they seem to like
eat live and breathe cooking I said no
I'm into the outdoors I'm into mushroom
picking I'm it's a fermentation of
berries I'm into you know canoeing I
know all about canoes I love swimming in
lakes I want to talk about multiple
subjects I want to talk about the native
Mohawks of Quebec I want it you know so
I said let us write a book about the
multiple subjects of which we're into
you know a Joe if we're not cooking
we're building first-aid kits and like
survival kits for real really yeah if it
goes to like LL Bean he has a lifetime
membership there and I have an off-grid
cabin up north like north of Montreal
about an hour and a half you can only
get there by by boat it's eight
kilometers from the landing you know two
thousand watts of solar power completely
off grid you can't even you can barely
walk in because of the jagged cliffs all
around it behind me is an old-growth
forest that's protected federally and I
have a suture kit and saline my car
always I do
fitted like he's got shovels on the roof
and propane tanks on the roof two years
ago I drove to Alaska down south Arizona
back home 20,000 miles I grew up in
Boston and I did stand-up in Montreal
for the first time I think in like 1991
or something like that and I remember
thinking Boston was cold until I went to
Montreal and I want oh this is a
different thing we had we had a polar
vortex last year come roaring through I
think all the pipes blew and all the
restaurants I'm sure like January 2nd
you know but what I was gonna say is do
you think that living in such an extreme
environment in a beautiful city amazing
city but it's an incredibly harsh
environment in the winter do you think
that makes you more more cognizant it's
always the need for survival it's always
in the back of my head I have three
daughters like it's always in the back
of my head they said this is incredibly
cold if the power goes out for 48 hours
I have to start a plan B where am i
bringing my babies what are we gonna eat
where are we going
yeah sure city over the last couple of
years have been talking about a complete
ban of fireplaces and wood-burning
stoves inside of homes condominiums and
home and houses the the laws governing
wood-burning in the city of Montreal or
stricter than the ones in California and
we diet man it's all we die like oh this
is irresponsible you know by the
government to do this I said okay make
sure we don't use them but let's all
have them just in case
same goes for because if the big yeah
what are they worried about it for
they're worried about their particle
emission particulates yes correct
man but it smells good like a nice
wood-burning doesn't like make amazing
yeah this affects everybody this affects
restaurants and grilling food this
affects barbecue this affects our you
know traditional bagels stores
traditional bagel stores cook with wood
isn't what you said of course you go
into my land st. viateur bagel Fairmount
bagel all the other ones you smell it
it's a massive part of our culture as
well you have to understand that food
wise the province of Quebec
in Quebec City in Montreal see the first
place is populated in North America this
is you know the Europeans to get to
anywhere in North America came through
Quebec first New York afterwards the
food culture in Quebec is over 400 years
old you can't say that about over
thousand years old you know yeah
absolutely
and then would would what is detrimental
to that if it wasn't for burning wood
I'm not saying we should do it for a
historical purpose but like man like if
we run out of gas there still would give
you a ticket you know two grand because
you're having a fire a few years ago
like about a decade ago we had this
crazy ice storm in Quebec you know the
perfect storm of rain and then cold and
then rain and then cold all the power
lines without the pylons yeah everything
got thick with ice right yeah for two
weeks yeah two weeks there's a baby boom
right after that because people stayed
home no television and no heat and and
procreated that there was a true baby
boom nine months later those a ton of
new kids born
that's hilarious do you know that the
deep freeze it also like cleans the city
in the winter so from your perspective
the shit hits the fan and come and see
us because it's a pretty good city to
survive anything
you know it's a pretty neat place
because the winter just like sanitizes
everything you start again every year
yeah yeah as opposed to LA where you
never really get that clean down yeah
yeah you do like a whore's bath you just
get like you're in a restroom somewhere
with paper towels that you went down and
sort of get your underarms or whatever
that's what the wet towel it's yes yes
so you just wanted to write a book that
kind of covers all of your interests not
just with food but one of the things
that I really enjoyed about there was an
episode that you guys did of Anthony
Bourdain show where you are ice fishing
and you had one of those ice fishing
huts and you know cooked it Tony told
you it's notorious and they show that
they never caught fish
yeah and whenever he had a gun he never
anything so we knew that and we knew
that there was not a pike and there was
not a walleye that was gonna bite so
we're like okay option a we sit there
and we like take some fake fish and we
fry it up in cornflakes and shortening
in a hollow cabin or we just went like
Joe beef crazy and we brought all the
old cookbooks we had all the spirits
like Cuban cigars all the copper where
all the stuff and we made the menu from
an old Leon a restaurant Paul Bocuse
that he did a show at after and he knew
nothing about that day and we just went
from fishing after he asked us about
like strippers in Quebec and like I just
a few funny banter and as we just went
in I was like magical it's a it was
seriously 1/10 1/10 of the size of this
room here you have a tiny tiny little
Shack he tapped out that day yeah yeah
he was having a good time and we hit
that we brought some fine wines and fine
spirits some some really rare oddities
some old chartreuse and stuff yeah that
Fred that lying around and and Tony was
it's up on the screen right there he let
it go a bit you know he just he calmed
down and enjoyed us and let us do our
thing I'm a bit fatter eh oh god those
in the wine drinking days too right yeah
correct look at that God that looks good
is that fog wah and some sort of mashed
potatoes or something yeah that's a wild
rabbit it's a French recipe it's called
hair a lot Royale where you you cook the
hair for a long time and hair yeah and
you serve it with truffles and you think
you keep the blood this hair is snared
so it's still full of blood and you keep
the blood and at the end you thicken the
sauce with the blood whoa it's very good
and I bet you you know it's funny I bet
you it fits all the principles of
nutrition now you know like blood and
all the organ meats and all right same
with cheese look this is like the my
cheese probiotics right there isn't it
that is interesting right that no one
thought of that until recently that that
was what it was people just thought of
it as cheese and now people think of it
as there's live cultures on it and organ
meat is much healthier for you and
people are so much more aware look at
the the cheese thing too it's like now
they love the probiotic
makers are doing like lit lipo
deliveries they coated in fat so it
resists the stomach acid right but
that's fat probiotic from cheese is
covered in fat you did after your dinner
it lives through you and and it all in a
perfect world it comes from right around
your house right so you eat a cheese and
the probiotics are the same one that
you're gonna encounter later so you kind
of get immunized in a way yeah that's
the benefit that's what true local is
right right yeah is there's a benefit to
eating cheese after meal yeah sure it is
and when it's a very pungent advanced
alive raw cheese it'll be seen
ultimately as a non-alcoholic DJ Steve
what is it DJ Steve the tube to help
stimulate digestion ah no kidding so
it's almost like an enzyme yeah like a
probiotic but mostly now they're they're
figuring this out that the problem of
the low fat diet and the you know like
brown rice and chicken breast you know
the bodybuilder diet nothing triggers
your fullness because they realize that
fat actually makes you full quite fast
right so if you eat a bit of cheese
you're done you tap out after you don't
need like a full plate of cheese or
layer it on a hamburger but just a
little bit of cheese after just cuts you
off and then you have spirits and cigars
are not that healthy but yeah I've been
talking about that with a lot of
nutrition experts where they say that
your body when it eats a lot of
carbohydrates you can consume
carbohydrates far past what you actually
need whereas if you're just eating a lot
of fat and protein your body tends to
regulate itself much better they she ate
yeah yeah yeah no you guys how long have
you been in Montreal and there I have to
tell you and I've said it before if I
had a say my all-time favorite
restaurant I think Joe beefs my all-time
favorite restaurant I don't like to say
my all-time number because there's a lot
of great restaurants in this world but
damn if I had to choose one I think I
might choose you guys know you're very
kind but we have to take you out to
other places to change your mind
man you guys are the first kind of if
you're a horse lover
turn your head plug your ears he has the
first people that ever served me horse
and I was like what when he brought over
a hole it was a horse tenderloin and I
was like what the
you guys are eating horse up here and
horse tartare but it's a stigma you know
it's a cow and Elka buys in a deer of
course it's four-legged animal and you
know what if I put if I put a bison
tenderloin on this Nick and I serve you
a beef tenderloin and a cow tenderloin
and that deer tender lights at the end
of the day it's you know it's just has a
couple of degrees of separation from the
other it's all flesh really and it's
it's very subjective that we base our
nutritional choices and how pretty or
how cute an animal is you know it
doesn't make sense you know and we're
lucky now we're able to choose where we
eat well you know like it wasn't like
that a hundred years ago you know the
purpose of the food guide until like
forty years ago was to make sure you had
enough calories now we're in an age of
restriction so you we say like I don't
want horse I'd prefer deer or I prefer
veal or a chicken yesterday can't have
twice in a row but like all this is a
bit of fluff what we do in a way because
we're so fortunate to have enough food
to decide my friend remi warren was on a
backpacking horseback elk hunt and one
of the horses fell down and broke its
leg and they had to make a decision they
were deep in the backcountry they had to
shoot it and it was just wasn't gonna
get out of there and after they shot it
he decided that really this is it sound
was gonna go to waste
so they took the back straps off and
they they cooked it and ate it and
anybody said there it was a really weird
moment where like this is an animal that
was like everybody's petting it knows
you were you know you're riding it and
it just it was a working animal but it
was an animal that you loved and then
all sudden it's down and you have to
kill and he's like well it's gonna go to
waste he said it just felt wrong to let
it go to waste so they they cut the back
straps off of it you know the reason I
think we don't eat horse culturally is
really based ultimately on the Battle of
wolf between Mon Cala on the plains of
Quebec City you know there that was a
decisive battle in North American
history whereas if the French had won
that battle
everybody North America ultimately would
be speaking French you know they didn't
win that battle so British rule imposed
so in England you did
horse by Royal Decree but in for the
Franchi doors
the Belgians eat horse the Germans eat
horse you see so yeah it's very old
history you know it was mining it was a
boat in an Anglophone world to eat horse
and and in all the mining countries half
my family's from Belgium and its
traditional there because they'd bring
the horse and the mine the horse you
know it's sad for a horse to live in the
mine in the dark but they wouldn't bring
it out when he was old you know they
would just eat the horse most cultures
eat Turkish eat horse you know what was
a necessity I mean you couldn't pick and
choose back when all this was instituted
we're very limited in the proteins that
we eat especially in North America
Quebec less so you know Quebec has a
very open-minded dining public very
advanced dining public very old dining
public and of course Latin French dining
public the amount of proteins that are
served in a Montrell restaurant are
numerous compared to let's say even when
I go to Manhattan if me and you and Fred
are in Manhattan tomorrow night say
let's go have rabbit with mustard sauce
it's gonna be a tough sell we're gonna
really struggle to find rabbit mustard
sauce we're gonna struggle even to find
you know let's go have a couple slices
of liver tonight with onions it's gonna
be very different with lamb neck you
know lamb liver deer is a hard tall
order you know ultimately Manhattan or
America it's a limited scope of proteins
beef chicken so forth whereas you know
French culture Quebec you know we have
all the proteins I have young dining
clientele that have no problem eating
kidneys medium-rare liver or lamb liver
deer neck deer heart tartare it's not a
thing like it's not what other
restaurant people are eating just part
of the registry you know little girls
like your daughters raised eating you
know the food that their dad hunts and
the food that their parents buy some
people have lesser means eat pork liver
raised on it so when they see liver on
the restaurant cute little you know
nineteen year old girls that are about
to go out to the club later but have a
slice of liver you won't see that in New
York City are you allowed to sell
venison here that you hunt
no not that you hunt you you have to but
by farm-raised stuff and oddly enough
most of its from New Zealand most of
stuff that we're getting here in the
United States is from New Zealand and if
they call it venison it's most likely
some sort of stag or you know and the
elk that we get if we buy elk in a
restaurant it's yeah it's all from New
Zealand
well you can't harvest you when you do a
kill you can put it in your freezer yeah
okay perfect
yeah well all I have two freezers back
here all of the elk that I get I get
from myself that I hunt and I give it to
a lot of my friends and I make sausages
for my friends and I sent you know but
that's the only way they're gonna get it
unless they go out and get it themselves
it's not a place in Los Angeles where
you can go buy elk meat yeah new in
Newfoundland that they're they're
allowed to hunters are allowed to sell
moose back to the restaurants really
yeah moose were introduced onto the
island of Newfoundland from Maine and
there was no natural predators on
Newfoundland
so the Moot and it's a perfect
environment for them so they just
propagated so that's why they take drive
slow there man
are we shot with Tony they drove slow
like we drove four hours like full days
to go like 300 miles because you can't
drive fast because of the mooses so you
can have a restaurant like in the hotel
we stayed the restaurant had a permit by
moose so they would make like moose
curry sauce days in kind of vibe like
yeah not a great restaurant like a hotel
you know a hotel restaurant serving wild
moose burgers but it's pretty cool that
they do that that is cool but if they
did that
everywhere else then we're just
reinventing the wheel you know with
rolling we're going back to market
hunting which is what almost wiped out
almost all of the animals in this
country and if some chefs in Quebec
would like to bring that back and I you
know I said with us we can barely manage
our roads or infrastructure we can
barely manage like her and that's the
risk of foraging do it like eventually
you know like people go for mushrooms
it's like you heard about the fights
between the mushroom pickers and Oregon
and stuff like that where no oh fuck
like the the people who harvest clams do
a that like between the communities
there's huge fights for territories and
they'd hijack like trucks of abalone at
night and GUI dock the giant king clam
mmm
I've heard stories of a guy on in his
Econoline van with 500 pounds of gooey
duck going to the Victoria Airport to
send them to Japan get hijacked on the
highway at night and they steal the
clams because they're worth a fortune in
Japan and same for mushrooms mushrooms
are as well another famous white it's
called a pine mushroom and in Japan a
matsutake mushroom the closer the shape
of the mushroom to a penis the more
expensive it is you know so they'd like
they'd actually hijack people on their
way to like the patch and like undress
them and make them turn around so they
can never find the place again
Wow yeah it's competitive morel
mushrooms you look at a morel mushroom
it's a you know how much fred for very
expensive 44 bucks a kilo and let
reality just keep it about a fist from
your face
yeah the morel mushrooms i buy online
they're very expensive i buy them dried
and they're so delicious i mean people
who don't like mushrooms like one of my
daughters does not like mushrooms but
she loves morel it's my favorite it's a
number one mushroom good with salt with
garlic salt and France sauteed in butter
they're sensational great much room yeah
it's a strange flavor one of our
favorite there's a great recipe for that
in the book is like you poached chicken
legs
right until they're ready and then in
the the broth very little broth you know
you strain the broth you add cream and
saute morel mushrooms in there and a
little bit of sherry wine any of
oxidized wine and you just add the legs
in there and you let you let that simmer
man that's good we have a picture in the
book of some RL mushrooms of the size of
these water bottles I've had morel
mushrooms that are about the size of my
hand you can stuff like half a chicken
leg inside of them and serve one stuffed
morel mushroom and broth for one
customer it's brilliant aren't they
they're a strange mushroom right where
they they pop up after burns yeah and
they also a spring mushroom which is
weird because most of the other
mushrooms are later on them damp right
and Morel is like literally quite quick
after the snow that's the first mushroom
that appears in the forest so it's a
very different than all the others are
they commercially cultivated they could
be but not I've never seen it my face I
tried growing mush we tried everything
at the rest
I tried growing mushrooms and like you
get everything but the mushroom you
inoculate you know it's very difficult
to keep the proper conditions and stuff
that's why I'm not against the fact that
they're expensive you know it's a good
way to regulate a market price you know
it's like yeah you know bluefin tuna is
going extinct but just make it three
times the price it's gonna regulate the
market you know I guess I wish there was
a way to reintroduce bluefin to the wild
it just seems like the appetite that
people have for those things is just
untenable give you a look at any given
night in a city like Manhattan how much
red tuna is sold on the island of
Manhattan Oh any given night of the year
it's it's it's scary I almost feel like
it's like killing the last giraffe and I
heard you know like like fishing a giant
tuna like that it's it's and again you
know that they're big they're feisty
they're majestic so that shouldn't guide
my choice my decision and to protect
them but like I that's heartbreaking the
problem is there's complete lack of
regulation in the open waters when these
guys have these enormous ships filled
with huge Nets and you just drag them
across the ocean floor and capture
everything bycatch you know that's the
biggest joke it's like they call it
bycatch so you didn't set off the fish
for tuna but that's what kind of bit you
know like yeah come on you know you go
fishing for what to catch a bluefin tuna
in the first place you know place oh so
they're there pretending they're not
fishing for it so we're saying allegedly
yeah well you know that whole thing with
Japanese whalers they've found a way to
work around it and the way the words are
just it's research boat so the these
science research where we're gonna do
research on these whales that we kill
and then they chop them up and sell them
and sea Shepherd has been tracking that
down and they they you know hover over
them take photographs of it and report
them and you know it's it's ugly
business yeah eighteen is ugly business
we've worked hard at the restaurant to
ultimately avoid it to be more seafood
sustainable seafood focused you know the
oyster is a great thing to eat we should
eat more oysters right see more clams
Florida oddly is an amazing sustainable
seafood scene
just the work that they do with the the
Florida stone crab right you know that
every year they just harvest like the
left arm and they put the crap back and
the next year it's the right arm and
they put the crab back really yeah it's
a brilliant fishing industry yes they
don't kill the animal the core the claw
grows back right and it's a they all fit
nicely in the plate side by side I don't
like that you're telling me something
good about Florida they have a great
shrimping scene a great you that they're
actually leaders in sustainable seafood
well the seafood and fishing is such a
gigantic part of their economy it makes
sense that they would do that that's a
smart thing yeah the grouper fishing
down there is a giant giant part of the
earth there's a good book that was
published a few years ago the big oyster
I think Marco Lansky he wrote a book
about history of the oyster yeah the New
York in the history of the oyster and it
incredible super interesting because his
his thing was like you know we try to
portray our history as like glorious and
we herded Bisons before for protein and
that's how we started or like modern
farming but in fact we probably farmed
oysters and snails and clams because
they don't move and they're the most
prolific and the most abundant source of
protein in that book orlansky
brings up a premise and i'm loosely
interpreting it now because i read this
book a few years ago but think of this
for a second right the island of
Manhattan is a perfect all the rivers
around it all the water systems around
it is actually one of the greater oyster
situations on the Atlantic east coast
right the reason that the population
exploded in Manhattan at them in the
early days was that any person could
literally get off a boat walk on to the
island of em of Manhattan homeless broke
and sleep in an alley and walk down to
the river and picked five oysters a
small oyster is five grams of protein
right a medium or Easter's got ten grams
of protein so a completely destitute
person could just eat six oysters a day
you know three oysters and live again
another day two
a job so the population ultimately you
know New York City and his population
was based on this readily supply this
huge supply of oysters Wow yeah it was a
free available source of protein that
will make you live another 24 hours so
if it takes you three days to find a job
four days to find a job 20 days to find
a job you're not gonna die because
there's Auster's look at this and yet
and they they they found ways for him
what is this from Harlem River oysters
crap oh yeah there's an actual island
that they thought where like geo
geological formation that are made of
oyster shells this layers and layers of
oyster shells the article the Jim you
put up is from Thrillist is that what
it's from pull up to the top so utopia
with the order of the derivatives why
orders are ridiculously important to the
history of New York City and it's just
showing all these ancient photos of
mounds of oyster shells there's an
amazing program today you know some of
the area's a there's a they take these
giant cages one Easter if I'm correct
one Easter filters four metric tons of
water per day from what I understand I
might be wrong with my math so take this
for instance you know a cage a caged box
of thousands of oysters there it is
there's a single oyster can filter about
30 to 50 gallons of water bath New
York's waterways are exact it cleans the
folks behind the billion oyster project
are trying to change that by recycling
shells from the partnering restaurants
and getting them back in the water to
build easter reefs the goal is to add a
billion moister x' to the water by 2035
so far they've restored 1.0 one acre 1.5
acres of reason what don't say 1.05 did
you got an acre oh that's you just add
in those extra two numbers 1.05 acres of
reefs and count 11.5 million newly grown
oysters but the oyster will clarify the
water it'll make a murky river clear
again Wow but in effect the taste of the
oyster they don't eat those oysters I
think those are pulled back into
landfill after or mulched into garden
or for the shells of em to be put for
more reefs but the oyster is interesting
it doesn't move right a noise it opens
its shells to feed showing how they do
it this is incredible and the oyster you
know that the oyster has a it will
change gender according to the density
of the population so it'll go from male
to female in order to balance the flick
of the liner that's incredible we're
watching a video where the what is it
the oyster recovery was it I'm sorry so
it's a time-lapse but it said what does
it say it was from yeast your filtration
right but there was a watermark on the
video there in the corner it was showing
yeah always the recovery partners yeah
so the watermark is so what they do is
they have this horrible green water they
chuck these oysters and it turns it
completely clear that's amazing I did
not know that I did know that they used
to eat lobsters and they thought of
lobsters as poor people food sure yeah
yeah in New Brunswick they used to
harvest the lobsters to feed to the
prisoners and keep the shells as
fertilizer
this person was one of the first
presidents to bring the lobster into the
White House cuz it was seen as a
servant's food when did it switch
Jefferson so when he started doing that
that's what people realized it was so
delicious
no that's made a lot socially if we
changed the whole thing
the lobster spaghetti that's that's off
the chart you know so the child labor
laws we're in stored primarily because
of the kids that used to work in noiser
shucking plants really yeah yeah we had
a one of our best friend if not our best
friend passed away like six months ago
john bill he was a great talker you
helped us at the bar but he's like deep
into sustainability and history of
oysters and everything and he was like
the source for oysters for everything he
wrote a beautiful book yeah almost send
you a copy it's an incredible book
they're a good food for vegans to
consider too because they're more
primitive than most plants yeah no small
ESCs john used to call them ocean
cupcakes well they're delicious it's a
great source of protein but it's also
they don't have any nerve endings and
they're not feeling any fight it's a sea
vegetable yeah it basically is we
an issue or some people not myself but
some people have an issue with things
that are capable of moving yeah for
whatever reason we just decide that
don't eat that but if you want to talk
about something sustainable like
mollusks and seafood net mean they can
be commercially farmed they actually do
have a positive impact as you're
describing on the environment incredible
source of protein as well yeah yeah and
really Oh a complete source of protein
not like a very bioavailable source
unlike a lot of vegetable proteins so
maybe we should do a protein powder out
of dried oysters just bro I mean a lot
of people are eating cricket protein if
you guys ever serve any insect dishes I
got a letter last week that someone
found a bug in their salad in there you
know sometimes the people are a bit they
want the cake and they want to eat it
too because they people want organic
right and we support that we love that
but there yeah organic is no pesticide
so that's okay
bugs aren't bad it's like the idea of
bugs being like roaches are bad okay
most other bugs are not that big of a
deal yeah it's like quite you know if
we're sir if we're serving a hundred
people a day and maybe you know that
arguably being 40 salads you know some
kind of crazy work to really look at
both sides of each leaf we try our best
right you know but you know one one will
get past us every year I think you're
better off the people that that they're
freaking out about bugs you don't want
them coming in there just let them just
give them their money back and get the
fuck out of here yeah I agree with
fallacy but when I was in Mexico they we
checked into this resort and they had a
bowl of fried crickets in the hotel like
they had some sort of a flavor to them
they added some flavors yeah Rene
Redzepi and Noma arguably one of the
world's best restaurants is obsessed
with serving ants really loves them
lemony fresh how do i things I think
they're crunchy they're delicious you
know he thinks they're fine you know of
course and he's doing this wonderful
Nordic cuisine and there's ads and when
it went
words and they forage mushrooms and you
know there's also ads so why not forge
those too and it's a homework they do
for the rest of us you know it starts
that they're doing the right thing you
know people pay a lot of money and fly
there to go eat there but you know he's
doing some good legwork on how to
prepare them how to raise them how to
you know I'm not saying his food is
based on that but I'm happy that
somebody did that part of the research
and he'll bring the point up and that'll
you know ultimately by osmosis the other
younger chefs will try to do that I know
they'll normally sit a little bit more
so you know expect ants at Nordic
restaurants interesting so this is the
new trend get ahead
you heard him Los Angeles I know you
trendy folks are out there thinking
about what's coming crickets are a weird
one like crickets seemed to be like
universally accepted like cricket
protein you see a lot of protein bars
you don't see too many other insects
being like commercially harvested David
and I were in New York for Anthony's a
memory thing Memorial thing and we
worked in the Bowery and you know middle
of the afternoon Hudson this is a good
know and there's like a little store no
refrigeration and there's buckets of
clams and you know like mesh bags like
you put onions in this big mesh bag and
a bin and it's full of giant bullfrogs
like looking up at like a hundred little
bullfrogs but like like oranges in a box
like one two three four five live their
little eyes just looking up like this
and I was like sure we have frogs in the
book but I was so hang on Fred and I've
been cooking for years it's like you
know 25 years arguably not if not more i
processed repository okay okay so of
course we can't we just look at the
frogs we don't say anything to each
other we keep on walking and I go hang
on a sec Fred walk me through this
because how do exactly this work I know
how to do a rabbit I know how to do a
hare I know how to do a duck I know how
to do any fish any seafood long as you
get a case of frog in the kitchen what's
your first move right now what's our
first move so we take the fly frog do I
put it on the cutting board do i hack
its legs off and what do I do with the
60% remaining of the frog this is a
tasty broth
yeah is it is it ground does it end up
in dumplings where is that other part of
the frog going is it soup is it broth
you know that's how I'm phibian right it
was fascinating
did you experiment no no no I'm
mortified and after that we went to
Tony's memorial it was in a Chinese
restaurant and I was just like I
couldn't eat because by default
everything had like frog in it in my
head so you were freaking out just
because they were alive staring up at
you
no because I know that the legs are
delicious right I know that you know if
I cough the legs off and I peel the skin
and I dredge them in flour and I fry
them and I serve them with garlic cream
that they're delicious there's delicious
chicken wings what I'm worried about is
the frog is so big and you know the the
discarded part of the frog is the size
of a softball right so yeah it's like
eating the stem of the Apple and leaving
the apple in cooking we don't throw
stuff out right right so I want to know
what happens to that part in Chinese
cookery or French cookery well did the
place that you guys were at was a
Chinese market yeah one of those hole in
the door kind of lighting supplier and
it was like I we got it there were
climbs there were
wink periwinkles there were like all
like I've never processed frogs in my
career really you know when I've gotten
fresh frogs I was working in France and
it was just the frogs legs and a button
and a basket but even then I would
wonder in France where does that other
part go I know this is a very disturbing
what seems like there's got to be an
answer to this maybe I don't know these
are people that I would call wonton
stuffing right I'm sort of boiled and
grown I'm hoping they're discarded the
video is graphic let it go let it roll
okay I'm not gonna put it up on you put
it up for us so we can see it here we go
okay oh no they don't even bother
killing them first they just do it on
the fly legs off
Fred that's exactly like Brazil ease
okay so they squeeze it out once they
cut the head off they they squeeze it
out like a would you describe that like
they're peeling it now right so then
they squeeze the they squeeze the
innards out like it through the neck
cabbage like the last of toothpaste yes
that's a good way to describe it yeah
okay so then they take it now it looks
like a man because it's headless it's
like a headless man that's like one of
those two mannequin that you you used to
draw bodies there yeah I would I have a
what point you put the batteries to the
hind legs batteries you know in like
high school all right
you you put the little battery in the
back cigarettes in them in the boughs
he's chopping him up it seems like he's
leaving the bones on is that what he's
doing yeah okay so you know what it's
really great that we're watching this
because I'm a lot less horrified by the
whole prospect of it so he's just
hacking it up bones intact and then and
chucking it into a basket so it doesn't
look like they're missing much other
than the guts so it seems like the
innards and then they seem to be boiling
all that stuff and okay so they put it
in a soup with the bones intact and you
just sort of I need that yeah it's funny
if I had to make a dish with that I'd
make the soup with daylilies inside
water lilies I mean like a soup with
frog no leaves look like lily pads right
those are hot right now in cooking do
you guys try to do that like add some of
the ingredients of the native
environments of yes yes yes tricks to
cooking one of the best tricks are
cooking when you have chef told me this
a long time ago in France he goes well
chef what should I cook the lamb with he
goes see see what would it heat if you
had a lamb what would be growing around
it mmm and it automatically just
scrolled down if I had a lamb and an
acre of land what would be around it
there would be turnips there would be
carrots there would be onions there
would be apples there would be pears
there would be time there would be basil
there would be garlic there be so just
there you go you know more idyllic
environment yeah the problem is is when
you have lobster and you cook it with
mangoes right where lobster is where it
comes from there's no mangoes so the
recipe doesn't
cents might be delicious but it's dumb
but butter lobster and butter they go
together lobster butter potatoes what
else grows their onions and clams Prince
Edward Island okay small island in the
Gulf one of the provinces of Canada we
have cows so you say no and lobster the
rich three resources no not the actual
environment it's a rabbit if you have a
rabbit in your backyard or you know in
the line of sight what can you see there
rabbit with apples and carrots make
sense
yeah but what if lobster and mango is
fucking delicious yeah but it's in it
you know it's for other people to do we
have our principles academically
incorrect academically correct that's
fasting one of my favorite pizzas don't
get disgusted at me don't hate me
pineapple an inch off pineapple an
anchovy that's right pineapple and a
half in there pineapple and anchovy it's
goddamn delicious I fucking love it I
don't care what you say who does that
that's like you'd invented that I might
have that's good now we're gonna try I
want to drive frog soup with lily pads
and pineapple and anchovy with both hard
with the pineapple and hard with the
anchovy do you want to write a book
three with us no I'm good at elk steaks
and I know how to order pineapple and
anchovy pizza I have to say that when I
see your the picture you posted your
meat cooking not bad it's always on
point thank you very much because
there's a lot of hunters that post up
pictures of their dinner and it's not
because in like you can take pictures
and they look beautiful with like of
anything it's not the quality of the
picture but the food is a little bit mmm
yeah some hunters don't know how to cook
we have a lot of hunters in Quebec and
sometimes you know the hunter will bring
by the because I shot this beautiful
moose David it was a 2,000 pounds or
1,500 pounds and he shows me a picture
on his phone and then he brings me a jar
of the spaghetti sauce he made out of
the moose really that's what you like
you shot a majestic moose in the forest
and you made spaghetti sauce with it and
I put Kiwi in it because it tenderizes
the meat
well listen spaghetti sauce with ground
mousse is delicious I'll give you a tip
you gotta have you gotta have a high
everything I eat the whole thing
right I mean I'll I know how to make the
roasts and I use the ground for a bunch
of different things and I just think
that if you if you do it properly or if
you if you want to handle it properly
you've really got to read up on how to
cook wild game as opposed to how to cook
anything else there's a very little fat
content
it's a tricky kind of meat to cook
there's a tool it's called a lock block
in French it's like a big needle with a
swivel tip and what you do is you cut
long strips of fat and you poke him
through the meat oh yeah you don't
inject you put like Loreena get you're
threading your piece of meat like the
loins or the fat that the back straps
it's it tends to be leaner so you put
long strips of pork fat inside and you
cook it slowly enough that the pork fat
will melt inside so in every bite you'll
have a little bit of fat to knead saying
it's an old French cooking track yeah
sounds sensational or what we do
actually like for the wild rabbit which
is extremely dry we'll put a veal foot
with the skin so that'll give off the
collagen and we'll put a slice of pork
belly with it that'll give off the fat
when are you guys going back to Montreal
tomorrow tomorrow yeah
I can't give you meat right it wouldn't
no it couldn't get through the border
wouldn't work not this way the other way
works yes it works if you hunt it and
brought it
I've brought me back but uh damn I'd
like to give you guys something see what
you do with it
they're wood it's a lot of things our
favorite meat but you know it would be
sooner be caught with bricks of hashish
then then venison as restaurant owners
you know like like you know it is not
you cannot have any wild game in your
restaurant even if it's just for your
own personal consumption not really a
sturgeon to to is a problem and I've in
Quebec caviar you know we have a lot of
sturgeon in the Gulf Saint Lawrence the
laws are ridic
lights out ridiculous hmm if you get
caught with like a gram of caviar in
your boat you don't have a license oh
freeze your bank accounts it's easier a
house kind of thing yeah there we go it
would go south quick what is the concern
is it is such a commercial market for
sturgeon caviar is that what it is yeah
exactly yeah Wow so people just go that
far out of their way to get caviar that
they had to just make these it's like a
fish right now is worthless if you can't
use the caviar right we're allowed that
there's a fishery for them they fish
leave that sturgeon in the Gulf of st.
Lawrence when they catch them they have
to gut them they have to remove every
egg and dump the eggs into the water
they're allowed to bring the meat back
to smoke it and salt it and to sell it
there is a commercial commercial wild
fishery for sturgeon meat but the salt
you just put a price tag on the fish
let's say it's worth 200 bucks but all
of a sudden if you're allowed to harvest
the eggs and the fish 15 grand yeah it
would just be yeah because they produce
a monolithic amount of eggs what's crazy
is now you're making it useless because
you're throwing it away something that's
incredibly valuable and delicious the
quotas are very small though let's say
if you had a sturgeon license I imagine
you're allowed five or six or something
like that and the first nations like
Mohawks mmm the Iroquois have the right
to fish you know we've been on boats
where a guy was fishing you know he
showed us the traditional technique and
it's not sports fishing like the soup
they did they like they loved it that's
great fish and themselves need the eggs
and make soup they put the eggs in it
they like are they catch sturgeon 20
minutes from Joe beef Wow Yeah right
there downtown like it's a dinosaur yeah
what a spirit Wow yeah it's a crazy
animal and when you see them in the
water yeah you see the scales on them so
bizarre that I mean how they're from
what a hundred million years ago they
look like dinosaurs they really do yeah
and the guys that we know that fish them
is quite the characters and interesting
guys of he's a mohawk and he told us
that the biologists put underwater
cameras there to look keep track of the
fish and they said they see like 16
layers of sturgeon swimming one atop of
the other he said I could walk on the
fish
you know there's that many yeah there's
a ton Wow there has been again you know
the people don't really even struggle
with it at the restaurant but for me to
sell a plate of smoked sturgeon tough
sell
you know I'll sooner sell other things
than that you know people aren't
interested I think it's a tough sell as
a fish let's say as a 200 gram or a 4
ounce piece of fish thing that is so
crazy
mmm is that the same River that's right
Columbia River sturgeon it looks like
Fraser
yeah Fraser NBC look at the size of that
thing that is so ancient looking it's
like it shouldn't be here yeah it's a
fish that's a bit muddy too sometimes
depending on where it's caught and
everything so how do you how do you
handle it like if you're gonna cook one
of those we make Jamaican patties with
it we did an old French cookery one of
the ways to cook sturgeon is ultimately
you apply cooking a piece of sturgeon
loin as you would a piece of veal loin
of pork loin meat juice even is
acceptable you know roasted carrots
roasted onions roasted celery roast the
sturgeon and bacon red wine bacon
mushroom red wine like Fred said so you
treat the sturgeon as you would meat
it's possibly the best way to treat it
as you would fish is not the best you
know people got to expect we we were
overly fortunate to have you know 300
gram you know like a pound of fish
seared in a pan and served with a little
sauce was common thing right but it's
not the right thing to do if we want to
keep things in the water you know for
our kids or whatever so people got used
to this like a piece of fish that tastes
like nothing that you can eat for like
an hour and a half because you have so
much of it and that's the standard but a
fish like sturgeon is great if you have
a little bit in a sauce like David made
this talks about over like buttery
mashed potatoes or like with like egg
noodles or something like that it's a
great way to do it and it's a great way
to look at fish we're like you need
actually 75 grams of protein not like
500 you know what is the is there a
comparison that you can make in terms of
what it tastes like
yeah veal loin a little bit I guess
somewhat you know braised braised veal
collar
why do you say blonde ket I do a larger
piece of stew like not a small you know
two inch block of stew but let's have a
bigger piece of stew with a chunk of
seaweed in it yeah it's neat it's neat
it sounds now I'm hungry for it we do
like Fred Fred got the made think of the
mcnuggets molds you know because you
know the McNuggets have this like no
they're there's like four or five
different sizes Fred made the mold in
the first book and they precisely
exactly like the McDonald's McNuggets
now we used to do sturgeon McNuggets or
eel or eel McNuggets same fishery right
we have yields where we get sturgeon
it's kind of fun of them at the
restaurant it would literally be a Joe
beef and you'd get on your plate what
looked to be like six McNuggets with a
sauce and the little paper cup on the
side people what the hell is this I said
he is sturgeon Nuggets he'll is a weird
one and when I used to go fishing a lot
people would catch eels they'd be upset
like and then it would go to buy sushi
later on in life and there'd be eel
sushi like what the fuck is going to
different wolf that will feel it's a
different failure it's not it's not a
true eel in sushi
yeah right yeah I mean like the real I'm
I can eat bits of it but if we were to
like take an eel eel and and just like
first you have to put a nail in its head
and a nail in its tail and like skin it
and then cut its head off and peel it
and put it in a cast-iron pan with
butter and it's still moving like a
snake and the smelly creature it's like
it makes you choke you know we had like
four we had a little trout pond at Joe
beef that I built you know really yeah
and it was a bad experience because we
had a refrigerator thing to make the
water cold you know a cooler and we had
a pump but every time it rained it would
turn the breaker off and now the fish
like drown drown no oxygen
Tampa card gave us Emile's and we found
him the next day in the parking lot like
all the food on the other side of the
parking lot in the baseball field where
the bleachers right shit they're cooking
it and it's swimming at a right side no
head and no skin at this point this is a
grill what does it say it's a shocking
clip of cooking and eel alive in Seoul
nobody it's got that's that eel has
beheaded and skinned because it's still
nervous system is still very intact what
is what are those things in the bottle
there was his legs
that's probably its guts oh look at that
and it's like that's real stir-frying I
caught one once in Nova Scotia and a
hook and line and when I caught it
the fisherman next to me said don't reel
it in so I just held my fishing rod
I wasn't reeling in and the eel reeled
itself up my line to the tip of my
fishing rod and started reeling down my
fishing rod towards me I was a kid I was
horrified ever since then I've had an
issue like eels I worked in a restaurant
in France in Dijon and in the fridge
right near the the cook of the hotline
the cooking line there was a wooden box
with a cinder block on it it's the first
day I worked there I was helping out on
the fish station and I hear in French
and on Gyan come on the 101 you'll
ordered up and then the the fish chef
says go in their fridge there's a wooden
box
you take the cinder block off it you
just lift the lid a little bit plunge
your hand in there grab an eel and bring
it back to me I was like kidding right
so I literally do that going to the
walk-in fridge I pull the wooden box out
I take the cinder block off the top I
lift the hid it was just literally you
know 50 eels writhing together and
that's like Indiana Jones you know no
they live with it out of water no
problem Martin Picard at Pierre de
cochon in his restaurant right now I was
there last week he has a lobster tank
right in a doorway I think they hang
your coats right above it and in it
there's like eight
seals that all shakes them when they
come at work in the morning they reopen
the restaurant they'll find them like in
the cash register in the coat check it's
been they have like cinder blocks down
now on the top they got a plexiglass top
with holes in it so it oxygenates and
they're literally pinned down in that
tank
but even as you're eating and you just
see those giant eels and a tank of size
of your flag here it's just horrific you
know what's the best thing about eels
talking about it now what about the
flavor mmm I like it super smoked super
salted down with a good sugary salty
brine they have to cover it yeah like in
nuggets like we did but like even like
plating that a restaurant David was
talking about if you take a fresh piece
of eel and put it in a cast-iron pan to
smoke it does it's like mustard gas oh
yeah yeah yeah yeah it's good like it's
super I'm a little bit allergic that I
guess not all fish but some fish and I
when I used to work at that restaurant
we would literally like put a knife
through its head and into the cutting
board and then another knife through its
tail so it would be straight on the
cutting boards we'd pin down the the
left side on the right side of the yield
then we'd lift the fillets skinned them
score them and then pan sear them with
artichoke and country ham and as I was
pan searing them I was breathing in the
vapors of searing the eel and my lungs
would cease you know I'd have like kind
of like it would give me an asthma
attack somewhat it was wild now is this
a popular dish in France because of
necessity because of a lack of all right
a lot of a lot of old French cooking
would be based on what you had in your
neighborhood you know French cooking was
very different pre Federal Express pre
roads you know so eels in French cooking
would come from the Bordeaux region
ultimately and you know it would be like
mcnutt's dungee so it would be an eel
stew in red wine of course carrot onion
celery exactly like a beef stew and I
think also the the thing about it is a
it's a dish that you wouldn't make at
home
so people would go away on Vermont
Longhi let's go and eat heal because
that's what there was you don't want to
have the cinderblock plexiglass case in
your house and then they imagine your
house with your kids or my kids
hey lampreys there's you know in
Bordeaux there's some you know some of
the famous iconic dishes of Bordeaux is
lampreys this is like an animal from
dune you know it's like a big hole with
teeth they're the ones that cling to the
bottom of sharks correct
no that's a Remora okay the lamprey is a
problem actually now even in America
they're coming up in some rivers and
attach themselves to fish with their
suction cup head they're just horrific
suction cup head yes tooth it's like
dude it's like that Emily don't
yeah what do they taste like probably
the crappy like eel we did a dinner for
Tonio and he did his second book I think
at Liverpool house and I was I we were
much younger and I was like let's buy
some like daring food you know just Tony
Bourdain let's buy something like fucked
up so I ordered like two of those eel
and I try to make soup with it I try to
make everything and again you know the
classic joke the best thing to do with
it is to put it in the garbage like that
was that you are you make stock you
reduce it then you throw it away I'm
sure there's a recipe that's good and
I'm sure in in case of Apocalypse after
the winter sub seeds will fish for that
and will eat it but until then I'm I'm
you know I'm okay with like cutting my
Big Macs in half so they last for two
days it was a cool company that I've
been following a company online and I
think on Twitter Instagram it's kinda
called American unagi they're up in the
Atlantic Northeast are I think in Maine
or Massachusetts somewhere they have
some really they're raising eels I think
releasing them into the nature and
they're selling eels commercially it
looks like yeah and like horrific work
raising them and raising yield is there
like some sort of a environmental
benefit of having the heals is that like
sting about the lobster and put it away
in this freshwater river there are weird
animal right again loosely based my
facts are old
reading but from what I recall eels are
cool because they all the eels every
year go back to the Sargasso Sea is it
true that that's what I remember I is
that folklore you think'll tration
volume yeah yeah yeah Easter's filter
eels yeah so they all go back to this
one area that supposedly there's a
breeding area for them called the
Sargasso Sea great place for swimming
and where's the Sargasso Sea it's kind
of a southern middle Atlantic from what
I recall that's pretty that's pretty
safe bet
right where the run of the we're right
where the mythical plastic patches oh
the plasti that's the Pacific you think
that's mythical I don't know I've never
seen really a giant a real true picture
of yeah there's a Sargasso Sea
ochio the eels in our last lake in their
way wow that's so creepy look at that
fucker making his way beautiful video -
it is pretty cool Wow there's a guy
named boy young slots this his name who
is a young fellow that figured out a way
to filter out the Garbage Patch and he
has been he developed this device and
they recently started implementing it
but he's been he's been on the podcast
before and when is a great detail about
it the garbage patch is real
see that's the American who knows hey
whoa those fuckers just flopping around
yeah so they're an American unagi 'he's
instagram page we're on right now
they're in maine yeah
our aquaculture DeMars caught us great
oysters there - amazing
what about have you guys ever cooked or
eaten blueberry bear no we don't
mart-mart a in Montreal Marty Baron he's
hunting bear he goes and baits
every weekend and then he goes in Saxon
what's up blueberry bear though my
friend Steve Rinella it's is described
this to me
apparently when bears eat blueberries
when they find like it's towards the
fall in particular when they're trying
to fatten up before they go into the den
they'll find these massive fields of
blueberries he he shot one in Alaska and
this bear had eaten so many blueberries
that when they opened it up it smelled
like blueberries the the actual fat had
a purple hue to it and it's supposed to
be a spectacularly delicious meat I
thought it'd make sense but you know
that it's funny you say that because I
was thinking about that with venison
before we have some friends who had a
venison firm and what they this is it
right here this is Steve cooking it on
the show show is called meat eater Steve
will actually be guest on the show here
Friday but see how the fat do to it
amazing but he said it's it all smells
like blueberry so he rendered down the
the bear fat and then because this was
all in the field and then cooked the
bear meat this blueberry bear meat
chunks of it in the fat well if the
pigment is a lipo soluble then it would
make sense that you find it in the fat
but they made they made experiments or
friends with the deer farm and what they
did they wanted to know if the the taste
the venison was owed to the fact that
the diet of the animal or the way that
hunters traditionally break down the
meat in the field the field dressing of
the meat you know so what they did is
they put a beef like a steer and they
shot him and they they prepared him they
dressed him the way you would a deer or
a moose and then they at the same time
did the same thing with a deer and then
they did the slaughterhouse treatment
like a commercial treatment for both
animal and they realized once you you
wait a little bit even on the beef
before you got it before you skinned it
and everything that funky or that like
gamey taste will come even to beef you
know in fact sure that's what yeast in
nature it's probably also they think
that you might lack the skills to
properly extract the guts you might
perforate the gut sometime you might
perforate the the bile pouch there parts
of the
might come in contact this skin will be
on too long it's not bled properly as
well yeah it's not blend properly and
then you know it's not chilled super
rapidly may you kill in the morning this
the whole Sun is out you know you don't
have a fridge with you you have no water
and but on the other hand when we have
the wild rabbit they taste like juniper
like a very very very strongly like
juniper and that's that's in fact the
challenge is to get rid of some of that
juniper taste yeah it's like The
Partridge that we shoot at the lake and
in fact it's it's like spruce spruce
tips and instead of when we cook
sometimes we'll cook meat and then we'll
we'll even had add a partridge or at
home I'll had a partridge or a wild
rabbit just as seasoning to the rest of
the pot you know if you look at all the
traditional french-canadian dishes of
hunters they're all like all the games
are mixed up you know so you never have
this is a modern cuisine yay like
culinary fancy thing to have a breast of
Partridge seared on a bed of cabbage you
know those things are always treated
with like I said earlier with fat with
like all the spices with wine with
cognac with layers of like you know even
like organ meats in there and you put a
crust over it and cabbage you know it's
like that's like we said it needs a lot
of skills to eat like good games yeah
I've never had gamy venison I've been
very very fortunate that I've first of
all I've learned to hunt from people
that really know what they're doing so
we didn't let anything sit out in the
heat and make sure we opened it up and
cooled it out quickly but one of the
things that they do do when guys are
deep into the back country and they have
an animal and they they kill it and it's
even in the summer when it's warm out
what they do is they hang it and give it
a lot of air circulation it develops a
crust on the outside and then they cut
that crust back and then the the meat
underneath it is sort of tenderized in a
lot of ways and a lot of hunters say
that it's even more delicious that way
yeah it's protected by that by the
carrot but across the air is created
once it probably starts the
bacteriological work starts to work in
that crust there's age to process right
by which the meat gets tender the first
one is the rigor mortis right like the
meat rests and the rigor mortis like all
I guess all the cortisol and everything
that like stiffens the meat at death
well the meat will rest and then it's an
enzymatic reaction where the enzymes
where it can break down some of the meat
fibers and the tougher muscles and stuff
in French the word for a resting meat
that's called phezzan d and phezzan is a
pheasant you know because they used to
hang the pheasants by the neck yeah
until they fell it's a when the beak
falls off the skull then they're ready
to eat yeah I've seen that before that
is so strange it's hard to eat I've had
it a couple of times
it tastes like death warmed over guys
it's a you know a lot did people love
strong flavors like blue cheese like
Munster cheese in Germany you know so
this is because ultimately if you just
eat it fresh it's chicken of the woods
really right so good yeah by letting it
go a little bit letting it rot a little
bit they get these like secondary
tertiary intense flavors maybe two are
talking about probiotics you know you
don't those traditional ways you don't
always know what you why you do them
right
but maybe initially they're like you
incubate you know you immunize yourself
a little bit you know it's like the
taste is you got to love it after you're
used to it but initially it might be a
way to have some of the bacterias I
think you talked about soil based
probiotics before I read about that
like we're realizing that like okay
yogurt probiotics are not the whole
thing you know so maybe there's soil
based probiotic animal-based probiotic
maybe we're completely wrong about with
flora we're ingesting and maybe that was
like a way to get your flora yeah makes
sense I guess there would be some
strategies for taking that stuff in but
I would think flavor-wise it would I
mean because pheasant if you just eat it
fresh it's delicious it's light it's
very nice like I would think that unless
there was no other way to store
and they didn't have a refrigeration
which of course they didn't when they
first refrigeration is a super modern
invention if you look back I worked for
chefs in my apprenticeship that told me
stories about their apprenticeship and
it's like night and day they said when
we woke up in the morning we used to
have to fill the ovens with coal you
know and go down to the ice locker and
drag an ice block and through the what's
that stuff called the wood sawdust
sawdust shed and but like I was like
what Wow you know I said a lot of these
old French restaurants that are famous
had coal-fired ovens and ice block
fridges and the apprentices would live
above and they take shift you know one
night it'd be you that would make sure
it doesn't die because otherwise it'd be
hard to start again you know it's real
cold and burn everyday all of it all the
time the restaurant stove was ultimately
was also heating the whole building as
well the hotel was heated by the
restaurant Wow
well it makes sense I mean it really
does but there's not a lot of animals
that they would let get that funky other
than shark the shark oh they're in
Iceland or a double shark there's a
Korean dish that I'm actually curious to
try escape wing that is fermented but
until it gets that ammonia flavor you
know like you smell a camembert and
applause and you smell it smells good
funky cheese then you you go a bit
deeper you know bigger width and then
you're like wow Windex you know you got
like the ammonia and some people look
for that different cultures are in two
different flavors a friend of mine Andy
went to Calcutta three weeks ago and
came back with the number one candy in
Calcutta or in India it's just weird
candy called pulse if we had one right
now all three of us it's a repulsive
candy that tastes incredibly of sulfur
and fecal rot but in in India that's the
candy like people love it you know as
well in American winemaking and French
winemaking there's things and winemaking
called fly
you know using the flaws of wine in
France and natural wine making organic
wine making will always be volatile
acidity and Burton oh my seas volatile
acidity smells in the wine vastly of
vinegar and Brettanomyces smells vastly
of fecal matter barnyard fecal matter
you know
these in North American wine and even in
French wine are considered as flaws you
know in Japan they love natural wines
from France that have high volatile
acidity and Breton oh my C's smells what
would be ultimately considered a flawed
wine in France in natural wine world is
considered a delicacy in Japan in the
natural wine world
Wow so do they purposely take ones that
have that funky smell and ship them off
to Japan some winemakers you know that
the wine agent will come and visit the
the cellar and usually the winemaker
will point him in the direction and say
maybe you this might be for another guys
yes yes this is what we like I figure
like nobody right now will come up and
say it outright but I believe so and
there I don't stop this there are
Japanese winemakers now all through
France that work in a very funky way and
are more or less you know pushing those
wines into the Japanese market ok
disgusting so tell me what the name of
the candy is again pulse to spell that
pul se it's a green mango candy
yeah it's originally it's a classic
snack right where they use the sulfur
salt it's called black salt and they put
a bit of chili and sulfur salt on mango
and I have to admit that when I had the
the real green mango with the sulfur
salt is not that bad that candy was like
pushed it's like the mega warheads you
know that we had as kids
I wondered too sometimes like the gamy
flavor of the pheasant the cheese that
is the eel that that is I see it
sometimes as a bit of a like you know
the ghost peppers a bit of a pissing
contest between yeah you know like right
it's like no one could possibly enjoy
the taste of ghost pepper no no it says
it doesn't even have a taste I mean you
even responding to that taste I won't
even try it you know who you know who
loves that you know Olivier yes I'm like
those guys they have like well they
watch like Game of Thrones they get
together and they oh yeah and they have
like their Olivier album mercier whose
fighter in the UFC yeah and they'll have
like Ghost Pepper parties you know and
then the next day they'll go to
comic-con and dress up as superheroes
and then play some online poker and then
eat more ghost peppers it's also a UFC
fighter he's a very extreme human being
he's a funny kid he's very very very
nice guy yeah guys brilliant know that
he was a trained killer you would have
no idea have you talked to him it just
seems like a joke yeah he's a sweetie
yeah yeah good kid and it's a good for
us it's interesting you know we we
actually have a bit of a chapter in the
book where we talk loosely about those
guys in that relationship well you guys
sponsored him or something before before
the Reebok thing right yeah because I
remember one one of the fights that we
did in Montreal we went to your
restaurant afterwards and livia showed
up after his fight and you guys are
congratulating him yeah yeah his his
fiancee is his wife works his girlfriend
works with us at the restaurant for a
long time now and you know we met
because these guys it's interesting hey
they're super into food and they're open
to a lot of things and they're curious
and a lot of them get aimed in the wrong
direction you know like the brown rice
and chicken direction mhm and and you're
responsible for in big part for the
awakening the nutritional awakening of
these guys you know a lot of them go for
their gun license now just to be able to
hunt they go fishing on the weekend they
go for like two hours hike in the wood
and like little fishing rod they come
back with trout's and we get a phone
call he's like hey Fred I go fish for
trout so you know what do I do that you
know it's it's a great thing and yeah we
did we did sponsor them after but then
what we do now is we we cook for them
post weigh-in yeah
oh did GSP at the last fight at Madison
Square Gardens they were the boys were
there for a week we've done Tim Kennedy
for a week and just hung out and cooked
meals we send the kids Marco and Fred
goes and gap goes Gabriella Pro they go
they rent a suite and they prepare all
of the meals up to weight cut and
afterwards and do they have nutritional
requirements for the weight cut and like
like the week they do they have a
nutritionist there with them but then
they they have the cran but my take on
that is if the nutritionist writes a
plan and the foods not good and you
don't eat it then it doesn't doesn't
work right they can be but right on
paper but if you don't take the pill
then you you don't say chicken and kale
this much grams this but but we can a
professional cook will make the kale
delicious or Brussels Brides and cook
the chicken properly because the kale
could be bad and the chicken and the dry
thing too that works that guys are
already suffering the thing that works
the best in that case is that all of a
sudden you have in the room we set up a
little table with so it's not like
Playstation dirty underwears like
pre-fight vibe it's dining with its
dining with friends and and whether it's
Marco gab me we know we don't talk if
you don't want to talk where you want to
talk we're here you know and we'll we'll
hang out but then you feel like your
eggs in that tortilla you feel like your
eggs with potatoes or is like it's it's
mellow and it helps a lot with just a
context of not being like ordering pizza
for moom service you know George used to
tell us all horror stories you know
before some of his biggest wins years
ago with George say eating like room
service rigatoni and pizza before like a
major fight you know so now it's
different
and it's fun because like David said
earlier we have many interests and it's
great to be able to explore them like
that you know because we couldn't we
couldn't do this job if it was for like
12 stoves in the kitchen a bunch of pans
cooking pieces of meat writing books
about the seasons and tomatoes and
starting again like I couldn't do it
like we love that being a chef is like
one-dimensional really you know and that
whether it's like I live here whether
it's like going to visit an eel farm and
you know like it's it's it makes it
worthwhile up to this point well you
guys have a great philosophy about that
and that's one of the things that really
came through with the Bourdain show when
you guys were in the ice shack is it you
you enjoyed living well yeah everybody
has to live better take care of yourself
man huh
you know turn your phone off sit with
your kids listen to things brilliant
things you know find your phone off and
come with stories I had friends I I have
all my children now I'd love to sit at
the table and I'm quiet I just let them
talk and ask me questions and watch them
and it's just the best it's better than
my relationship with my kids better than
any relationship I have with any of my
best friends and my kids are more
interesting my family is more
interesting and it's work to stay and
you know contact with your family and
even the staff you know I enjoy very
much working in the restaurants that
we've built some I work five days a week
with people that I've been working with
for 15 years these are important
relationships it's not employee-employer
it's if you quit and you tell me you're
leaving I'm gonna be so I'm gonna go my
car and cry I've been working with you
for 15 years my relationship that I have
with many people I work with is intimate
I've seen their children boring I've
seen them go through breakups I've seen
them their parents die I've seen you
know like we go to war every night at
six o'clock 150 people are coming to eat
in the next three hours in four
restaurants we you know it's a job
that's so good for high-stress
environment for five minutes for two
hours it's week we got to walk properly
we got a we're we're knowledgeable of
each other's space there's a ballet you
know when you're washing the
glasses and the food's coming out behind
you you know we have a sixth sense the
know to move not to get the plate to
burn your elbow and you know this is
ballet we dance every night with these
people and for us to think that like and
most people still think that we're
behind the stove cooking I've got more
phone calls to get help finding a doctor
therapist whatever you know nutrition is
for the staff then I got calls about
recipes or food you know our job is I'm
an expert in drainpipes artisanal
plumbing artisanal electricity artisanal
refrigeration I know about three pouring
now you know like Sarah Mary decrepit
old buildings and you can't you know
we're running a restaurants with
employees and a constant burden of
payroll and we can't just call everybody
all the time
oh so you know they default any good
cooking school today
what fred is saying and fred is the
example of what a great chef should be
to be a very good cook a very good
person with people's skills but should
also have a minor in electricity
plumbing and refrigeration technology
aid you know even even now like we both
we both don't drink we both I wouldn't
say a health kick but just like want to
be there you know mind and body we want
to be like president and that's that's
we built something cool I want to
appreciate it not because I overlooked
that that's that like people don't think
about that when they get into this job
you know they they think that's this
warrior thing this we're savage we're
gonna drink we're gonna party we're
gonna do this know if you want to do
that till you're 60 and then get a
little cottage and write paint
watercolor by it but buy a sailboat you
have to think about it you know it's
like you can't live that life of
drinking and you know why do you think
that life is synonymous with chefs we've
been promoted and taught ultimately that
you will get paid you will make money
you will persevere if you understand how
to promote excessive eating in excess
drinking you will be recompensed if you
build a place where people come and eat
too much and drink too much and that
spend too much then you will be able to
have a life a car a house and raise
children okay so it's all good first you
have to learn how to cook then you have
to learn how to run a restaurant then
you have to learn how to what a
restaurant looks like and how to run and
you know how to host how to host what
the playlist should be like how to fix a
plumbing disaster how to fix an
electricity disaster how to fix a staff
situation disaster how to run a clean
house or people are working together
with all their different idiosyncrasies
but for my whole apprenticeship alcohol
was a reward you know you did a good job
tonight drink you know and then it went
from reward do oh shit there was like a
bloodbath in the restaurant you know we
had to pick up this guy at the hospital
okay it's not a reward let's forget
about it
let's drink you know and it was it was
always there you know that's great
service let's have a drink
you're in the food industry but you're
also in the wine industry because 50
percent of what you're doing is selling
food to people and the other 50 percent
of what you're doing is selling alcohol
to people so by default you're part of
the people that sell a liquid drug hmm
and dealer in that you're in that world
every day you go to wine tastings you
talk with people that sell alcohol that
bartenders you talk to people that sell
wine you're partaken eating and other
your colleagues restaurants and drinking
wine X thing you know you have a little
bit of celebrity you've been open for 15
years and you look back and you go the
seven days in a week seven days in a
week and I drank six of them I don't
feel good on Sunday I'm just kind of
recovering and then what happens is one
week turns into two to four and then you
kind of look back and you realize in
2017 that you may have drank 48 weeks
out of 52
you know and then it goes quick then
it's ten years near a ten-year
restaurant and you
been drinking five days out of the week
for ten years and then all of a sudden
you kind of have a problem you realize
that like my day-to-day is based on food
and wine right now I don't want my it's
not making me happy I've had all the
wines I've had all the foods
am I better for it not really what am I
better for restriction eating less
eating clean drinking all that spent
very special occasions
do you still drink especially I don't
I'm completely sober no did you make
that decision based on the idea that you
weren't able to control it or but just
that you I'm one of this decision would
be to just completely eliminate it
textbook case of a person who couldn't
drink yeah I tried several times to stop
I googled it I read about it it didn't
work
I was intervention by Fred and my
managers of the restaurants in January
12 around their 16th I think we figured
and of this year yeah I'm eight months
sober something congratulation thank you
and really good thank you thank you look
health I'm happy man I like the skin
every yeah it's amazing when that
happens conversation like I was angry
for a long time you know I had a like
you know it's not only alcoholism you
know I think all alcoholics are
codependent somewhat you know like it's
just it had been part of my whole
apprenticeship not being sober for so
many years it was all under control and
funny for a very very long time it was
always a big part of my life drinking
wine eating food until it wasn't
you know then one day I was you know 45
my relationship with alcohol changed
I became dark I became unhappy I had
success my beautiful children I was not
happy you know I tried many different
things nothing worked
I was intervention by people that I work
with that are dear to me that I love
very much
I guess that loved me they're tired of
watching me you know make bad decisions
and I just went to a great rehab called
Chatsworth that educated me you know I
was sitting in a classroom with a pad
and paper for six hours a day learning a
about the disease called alcoholism
learning about a disease that 30% of the
population has you know and how and why
I was an addict you know at first I was
an addict with food then you know at a
young age after a traumatic event then I
was an addict about with beer then I was
an addict with marijuana like we know
all drugs and then I was an addict with
wine follow up a couple more traumatic
events into my you know horrendous
apprenticeship and the stress of
leadership in these restaurants and you
know one thing led to another my
relationship with alcohol became not
positive with help
I understood through the education I
understood and now everything's great
it's funny too because I started as an
example you know I don't like to tell
him but maybe it's a little bit of
mentoring you know I was the canary in
the coal mine for Fred I decided I was
like fuck you know after Tony passed I
was like you know I was I remember I was
working in a new project doing tilings
and that's like I heard the news in the
morning I went I went to tile all day
and then I couldn't wait to get home and
have like two bottles of wine and I was
like why and we were the same about that
it didn't matter like what we loved at a
point look for example we loved MMA
right we loved going to the fights we
were like so fortunate we'd go and see
you we met the Fertitta brothers they we
discussed like we we sat with them at
dinner table we met you we met all those
guys David loves winemaking met all the
winemakers we met the best people in the
field that we loved charmed life not
happy not happy like ungrateful fucking
little pricks well you know I think part
of the problem is that alcohol is a
depressant correct
just you you get down it just it brings
you down it brings you down it brings
your energy level down it brings solvent
I'll cause a solvent and it destroys
your soft brain tissue you know I was
taught that in rehab so would you drink
acetone I don't know well it was made by
a lovely French vineyard with barnyard
Roma but do you do you miss anything
about the flavor of wine with a meal or
anything
you ever tried nah I don't even know I
go to wine tastings I was just at raw
wine and lots in Los Angeles I went to
taste all the natural wines beautiful
natural wine festival and you can taste
them still I taste them I don't swallow
I rinse my mouth out I'm very much
involved in natural wine and the and and
that and viticulture reading and all
that stuff that's gotta be so weird to
have a mouth full of delicious one just
spit into a bucket no it's the same
really yeah it's like cuz that's why did
I drink wine I'll factory the nose the
flavor understanding the winemaker his
philosophy the the geography of where
the wine comes from his work with you
know with using organic and biodynamic
viticulture not using sulfur just making
this amazing organic beverage with a
very little intervention natural wine
without side effects is I don't have to
swallow it because the drug is the same
drug that it's in that's in all the
other ones right that they can't change
the flavors what's different yes you
know and what I like is more of the
story the guy the vineyard the varietals
this you know would you eat at a fine
restaurant and have a delicious steak
and we do a wine accompaniment and then
just spit into a bucket I've done it
goes to the bathroom I was really
worried shut his mouth and he goes to
the bathroom I was worried oh what a
mouthful of wine I'm Raj Ryan Ryan grave
our friend from Elena that worked with
us for years Ryan goes to a restaurant
asks for a bucket people in the wine
business and they all drink wine and he
tastes the wine and he has discussions
about wine and he tastes it and spits it
and you know he's an alcoholic yeah he's
a recovered alcoholic three years but
he's a wine buyer and he's very much
involved he was my mentor when I got out
of rehab because in rehab they were
telling me you may never be able to go
back to the restaurant
what yeah and I saw a risk of
reoffending yeah and I was like I can't
like I go I don't know anything else
like I have no education I've been in
kitchen since I'm 17 way too late for
med school and we don't do well on
adderall so
don't want a clean iceberg lettuce at
the fruits and vegetable store and try
to make a go of that and you know it's
funny to like even like the alkalis beer
non-alcoholic beer it's better than
alcoholic beer Heineken zero zero man
Chris Chris outstanding
really Heineken zero zero oh it's that
it's really good that's fine well I've
only had like O'Doul's no it's not good
okay so so Heineken does it correctly
the the order of non-alcoholic beer okay
my head is Heineken zero zero
Carlsberg zero Grolsch zero roll back oh
yeah zero and then everything else is
not good after they let me add to that
because I'm also celiac right and
there's a gluten burg they make in
Montreal that's no gluten and no alcohol
now you can insert any joke you want
people are signing off the part about
meat though eat meat I'm sure I'm sure
that this is that's fascinating though
that you actually still taste it and
still it's almost like if you're a
herring a heroin addict just scratching
the skin with the needle we don't yeah
you know you know they don't recommend
that no my you know my therapist and the
people in rehab do not recommend that I
taste wine and spit it well sure they
don't but I have friends again I know a
lot of Sommeliers and even I I know
winemakers some of the most famous wine
makers in the world I've met in Burgundy
Adonai abt that are completely sober Wow
cuz they wanted to break this cycle of
my great-grandfather was an alcoholic
abusive person my grandfather was an
alcoholic abusive person my father was
an alcoholic abusive person and I didn't
want to take over this thousand-year-old
winery the legacy of my family I didn't
want to work here and I'm sure like you
know what all the epigenetic stuff if
you don't drink when your kids are young
and like there might be a thing where
you can stop the passing of the gene you
know but you did so brought it over
how'd you do fine yeah yeah well I did
no I was the realest sobriety wasn't
this was a very crazy sober October
because we added this insane fitness
challenge so I was literally working out
between three and a half to five and a
half one day six and a half hours in a
day yeah it was insane one day I did
five and a half hours and I did another
hour at night six and a half hours in
the day it was we were trying to kill
each other to see who could get the most
points we had a fitness tracker we wore
this heartrate monitor I heard that
Shane would score up the amount of
points you would get who wouldn't I want
right there if you get a 70% of your max
heart rate you get three points per
minute this is how crazy got 70% of your
max heart rates three points per minute
80% and above your max heart rate is
four points per minute one day I got a
thousand points so just think about that
think about how many minutes you have to
exercise at 80% of your max heart rate
to get a thousand fucking points so you
think sober help you with performance or
recuperation I think I was on drugs the
entire time this is what I think I think
I was on the endorphins that come from
long range cardio there's there's
there's a what I was called that don't I
don't give a fuck drug there's you get
this this feeling when you do car like
everybody was talked about runner's high
and I never really experienced it even
though I worked out really hard my whole
life I'd never been into like long range
cardio I had never done hours and hours
of the same activity just droning on you
know either on a bike or running I've
never really done that I'd run hills for
the most part and I'm sure a benefited
me and making me made me relaxed but
it's at a totally different level when
you're doing it for three-and-a-half
hours four hours a day it's true
survival mechanism the kick said it's
that but it's also you feel wonderful
you do you have zero anxiety and you're
still benefiting from that
oh no that's what's interesting like
I've been out of the house for a week
now because the fires so we've been
running around and the kids aren't in
school so they're here hanging out with
me and they you know we haven't had a
chance to get our stuff together it's
it's been very stressful so I haven't
really been working out much I've only
worked out like once or twice this week
so I have more stress
I feel like a little bit more tense a
little bit more take a deep breath calm
down during October I had none of that
know that I felt great I felt like I was
like if you could take how I feel and
put in a pill form and give it to people
everyone would be hooked on it because
you feel fantastic and I never
understood that I would see these people
running every day and I thought they
were just exercise fanatics like they
just want to be leaner or they want to
just kid maybe their body obsessed yeah
yeah maybe that's what it was but I
think they're drug addicts there are
natural drug addicts but in a very
positive way I shouldn't call it drug
addicts endorphin junkies that's what
they are it makes sense to that you
would every cycle in nature it's like
feast and famine it's like running and
resting you know if you follow if you're
a hunter-gatherer you don't hunt every
day you know you follow a cycle you
suffer for a month you'll hunt you'll
drag back the meat the meat home you'll
eat a lot and then after the next month
there's you'll be quiet you'll eat less
and then the next month so there's this
very little exercise program out there
that look at it like that but if you
were to look at it over a year maybe
you'd see it like I see no October's
more quiet I'll do my my month in
October November will be quiet busy with
other things after that I'll go back to
it in December it's better for the Soul
too you don't have this obsession
looming over you that you have to do it
tomorrow morning and at night and like
you know well my take on it was a little
bit different my take on is that
everyone's anxiety levels and all the
different stress and all the things we
deal with a lot of it is because your
body has capabilities and you're you're
not using even a small percentage of
those capabilities so it's always like
what are we doing we're going go we're
gonna go oh yeah and we're in traffic
you're moving quickly so you're
constantly aware of all these cars
around you and there's all the stress
and there's very little physical release
that the body takes part in and for most
people I mean the great percentage of
our population lives a sedentary
lifestyle they sit in their cars until
they get to the office they sit in their
office until they get home they sit in
front of TV till they go to sleep this
is a giant percentage of our population
or the number is yeah whatever it's very
normal and occasionally they work out
and when they do it's a struggle
when you force the body into rigorous
exercise on a constant basis your bodies
all the needs and of the this capacity
the capabilities that it has all those
needs are satisfied so what I found is
incredibly low anxiety levels and I
didn't think I had anxiety I'm not an
anxious person to the point where I
thought about taking medication for
anxiety like I'm nervous or but I didn't
I didn't know how anxiety free I could
be until I did this exercise program for
a month see I found that in sobriety the
anxiety I was I suffered and Fred
suffered from anxiety our whole careers
every day 200-300 people are coming for
dinner my you know it was there at my
head crippling yes is there staff
there's 300 people coming it's never
goes away there's always people coming
for dinner it's our throw happy 400
people every night but you know when I
was drinking that would just keep the
stress going now I'm fine it's gone
there's this magic number it kept on
hearing in rehab and it kept on hearing
through theracords 16 weeks man 16 weeks
I was like yes shut up fuck you know
what's this fucking guys always telling
me with these 16 weeks they're like 16
weeks man watch 16 weeks the morning 16
weeks that morning I woke up that
morning at my phone said up to 16 weeks
and I had this peace and this joy and
this childhood innocence that I hadn't
had in years on the day 16 weeks not
because I'd been premeditating in my
head and I was looking forward to the 16
weeks I didn't believe in it but it was
literally 16 weeks of an sobriety that
brought this I was clear that the drains
clogged that had no problem I'll be
there in half an hour yeah but guys it
should be just don't work the lights are
out in the restaurant and five tables
are unhappy mmm coming down do you think
that some of the anxiety was just your
body responding to the fact you were
poisoning correct no I think it's the
psyche creating reasons for
you to drink your mind is telling you
you're stressed I have a quick remedy
for it yeah why don't you try drinking's
that makes and you feel this way what's
your go-to I'd be like I could taste
sometimes when I'd fall into special
situations at the restaurant three
tables I don't like couple of criminal
elements behaving badly at one table you
know maybe I'm the border of lacking
respect of their waitress I might have
to get involved and I could almost taste
Chardonnay in my saliva glands yeah your
brain still plays the trick my brain was
making me high before the high I was
like why do I taste
Chablis in my mouth I think it's the
same with sugar addiction too you know
where people eat you eat sugar lots of
carbs mostly carbs then you're like oh
man I can't I have to go for three hours
without eating I have to bring something
sweet with me because I'm gonna get
shaky and then yep it's you it's like
you're feeding basically you I don't
know if it's your gut biome that like
changes but you're like feeding a
monster inside of you you're not feeding
Fred or David you're like feeding
something else you know like you're
planning a weekend at the cottage you're
like the kids are gonna be loud I'm
gonna have to bring like two more
bottles of wine you know I have to make
sure that the wine is cold and have to
make sure we have that or like you have
to you know have friends like that I
have to make sure I have like four
granola bars because I have to eat all
the time and you know that if you don't
have breakfast you have like a quick
coffee you can go till like 4:00 or 5:00
in the afternoon and not shaking and
getting cold and sweaty yeah you know
what depends especially if you have a
good healthy diet if your body's not
like sugar sugar dependent I think it's
funny a every time you know sometimes we
fall off the wagon and stuff now it's
pretty solid for a few years I think
that two weeks of drinking more water
having walks and not eating ice cream
and fries in two weeks of home-cooked
meals and water cutting down on coffee
because that do will fuck with you
anxiety you know sure we noticed both of
us all of this like so many diseases
based simply on overconsumption mm-hmm
yeah just period overconsumption
cigarettes overconsumption of alcohol
overconsumption of sugar overconsumption
of meat
carbs like mm-hmm restriction brings
clarity yes in but restriction diets are
one of the best remedies for people with
autoimmune diseases oh really
yeah yeah they cut down almost
everything out of you like one of the
things that people are doing today
that's very popular but keep talked
about this unfortunately is the
carnivore diet because Jordan Peterson
made it very popular when he was on the
podcast it's really fascinating there's
a spike if you look at the Google search
results yeah carnivore diet it's July of
2018 it goes like this takes off because
that's the day that Jordan was on the
podcast so he's in the podcast you know
fucking whatever amount of millions of
people listen and they exhaustion water
and because of his ranting and raving
about the positive benefits that he's
experienced so I go on the carnivore
diet people really got into it so I got
into it as well what is it about this so
I started consulting a lot of actual
nutrition experts and scientists and
what they believe is what's going on is
calorie restriction that because of the
fact that you're only Jordan is only
eating steak with salt and drinking
water that is all he's consuming and he
feels fantastic because it's not a lean
steak no realistic yes fat so then you
can't do too much because you have the
fat yes you're feeling full yeah yeah
yeah that fat is important yeah and
because the see quite a few autoimmune
issues that he had went away he's having
receding gums that went away he was
having severe depression and anxiety and
all these different issues that went
away you know it's a tremendous amount
of weight his body leaned up and
scientist scientist that I've talked
about you know this is a very new thing
for people to embark on this and do it
on a mass scale cause quite a few people
doing it what they're attributing it to
is the calorie restriction is that
because the fact that you're you really
can't eat that much steak you eat a
steak you know it might be a thousand
calories whereas if you mean a full big
thick steak lots of calories it's takes
a lot of steak right yeah but I mean he
might be eating two of those in a day
whereas if you're eating french fries
and soda empty calories your your Gary
shape here
like way more than that like what do you
think an 18 ounce ribeye is if you had a
guest calorically 11 1800 817 hundred
calories a day yeah because he's not
putting cream and coffee he's not having
a water when steak when I started eating
no gluten right it's fully diagnosed
right I'm not making this up I started I
stopped eating gluten he gets like every
day what does that mean everybody gets
crazy about the gluten so he is we don't
want it like what I said but what does
it mean it's like no but what does it
mean no gluten it means that you don't
go to MIT you don't know drive-through
you know slip right there's no options
out there in the fast food world there's
no so I have to plan my day sorry
like I'll eat a piece of meat for
breakfast with poor eggs or whatever and
then I won't eat until like show up at
work or at home later and eat so it's
what you've excluded that counts yes
it's not that the steak is so good for
you right is that you're not eating all
this processed food anymore because you
can't eat it anymore that's what the
scientists are saying but the people
that are pro meat it's really
fascinating because they're just as
culty as the vegans are the people that
are the the real Pro carnivore diets
they want you to think that it's the
meat that's healing them the meat that's
helping the meat that's making them lean
to meet them well it's not hurting you I
mean it's it's nutritious I mean there's
a lot of real nutrients in red meat and
this is also a problem with a lot of
studies that people have a lot of vegans
love to sight about heart attacks
strokes cancer in relationship to me
these epidemiology studies that whether
they're essentially is they're saying
look when you look at people that eat
meat five days a week these are the
people that have higher instances of
cancer higher instances of diabetes all
these different things well they're not
taking into consideration is they're not
just eating meat they're usually eating
a cheeseburger with fries and a soda and
there's all the sugar two minutes before
dinner and all
bullshit that's it that's involved with
the meat there's not any studies that
show that people who eat only water
12-ounce grass-fed steak with a good
plate of sauteed spinach and olive oil
and garlic that these people are getting
cancer no sure there's no not on that
it's nothing can't make a nutritional
study it's impossible people
fundamentally lie so you cannot have
people you cannot say like this is cocoa
fat and beef tenderloin I'm gonna give
you a weak portion you go home then you
come to report we do blood tests you get
anecdotal evidence from people they talk
about their own personal diet but yeah
it's it's it's very difficult and it's
also very ideologically based I mean
whether it's on one side with the vegans
or the other side with the carnivore
diet people I find the same
psychological characteristics in both
groups they want to convert people they
want to proselytize they want people to
think that their way is the right way
and they they are not honest about
health issues that they're having
you should make like a conference on the
deserted island you know a rich man's
castle like a Bruce Lee movie and you
you invite the vegans on one side and
you don't tell them you're also inviting
the other you know when both groups you
just have like a kumite well both just
think the other group is gonna drop dead
any second now the proof is in the
pudding if somebody is on your podcast
to talk about eating meat he's alive and
he's not dead so it works you know like
white look any further well none of us
are getting out of this alive no that's
for sure
when it comes to meat do you guys prefer
a grass-fed beef or do you like corn-fed
because I had this discussion with Tony
and he was telling me he actually liked
corn-fed beef he's like it's a fattier
there's this two schools of thought and
then there's two schools of what is
quality beef right so one school say
yeah quality beef is organic animal
pasture raised eating grass flavors
different it's not as tender but it is
high-quality beef okay then the other of
course is you know
a cow USDA prime grant corn-fed
incredible marbling ridiculous fat
content restricted motion I'd say a
lesser quality beef okay
then the other but they also started
eating wise they'll pestered at first
eating wise you know grant
pound-for-pound the corn fed steak will
be more delicious okay for some people
and then for some people the other one
will be in my my mind the grass-fed
organic pasture beef with its different
flavor for me as a higher quality animal
I prefer that taste correct I feel it's
a richer taste it's a denser darker
medium or the iron taste yeah I just
like it better and I do like a corn-fed
steak I do like but there isn't in the
general public the steak eating public
that come to restaurants encounter more
corn-fed beef that and the their first
judge of character to the quality of
that meat is turning its tenderness its
marbling it's not tender it's not tender
that's a reoccurring thing that we fight
with every day at Joby well this is
juicy and tender to see the 16-ounce fog
walk I know just what tender I know
teeth work well we got a snake set back
it'll be because it's too tough yeah
exactly it's not always usually go to
this steakhouse and it's to more tender
because you're bringing your serving of
grass-fed serve a grass-fed a grass-fed
steak that's not as marbled as its
non-organic
well it's an it's an but you can also
have it's another great salad so it's
like the natural wine versus
conventional wine fight right then we're
having yeah but it's also your we're
calling it binary now it's like it's
only corn or it's only grass no I think
the solution is maybe a little bit of a
corn a little bit of barley but mostly
grass-fed you
a brief finish in like quality grains
why not and then there's a whole other
point like I'd like to braise giant
feedlot I like to sell beef in my
restaurant that comes from very close to
my restaurant you know yeah when we
opened Joe beef at the beginning when
that first book the first book was
written beef was a problem back then you
know local beef was kind of difficult
and you know we were buying beef from
larger coal sailors and we if we didn't
know how to read the barcodes on the
boxes they would say was Canadian beef
but it might not resonate in beef it
might be North um you know northern USA
beef but we didn't know because only a
professional could read the barcode but
they were saying it was Canadian but one
day I had a professional come into the
restaurant and he said no actually this
beef is yeah from a company with
investitures in Canada but this is from
Western Australia and I said I don't
want to serve anything in my restaurant
from Western Australia
that's super far like like you know this
likes remove beef from the menu or seek
alternatives but it's a business that's
complex because there's pastures and
feed lots slaughterhouse and Packers
right and and it's not like you we have
lambs you get a baby lamb that come from
the parents lamb and then they farm they
raise the lamb and they bring it to the
slaughterhouse themselves and then we
get a lamb beef is like I think it's
like tracing Bourbons you know it's like
trading and brokerage and stuff and
we're not it's the most sketchy item on
a restaurant menu like I know that I
bought lamb from you and I know I bought
rabbit from you know Beatrice and I know
I got goat cheese from this family and
all of the products and my restaurant I
know exactly the farm the farmer beef is
always dicey because beef always goes to
the Packer beef always goes to the
distributor beef all you know take and
the general public only really eats two
cuts of beef in restaurants you know
three cuts the tenderloin the the
the what do you call in English that
also coat the other loins the lawn right
that's what people eat but in the
hamburgers beefs are not that you know
there's two big humps and there's two
big shoulders and there's a lot of
braised so you know it's a it's
difficult this is we see that
documentary on steak yeah yeah we're in
it we were in that's right yeah you were
in it right yeah what did you think of
that know their conclusions and mmm what
was the conclusion well just basically
were saying that Peter Luger steakhouse
in Brooklyn is a great a steak in the
world USDA prime corn fed protects maybe
it's good it's good restaurant good good
story good history great restaurant yeah
I ate there just a few months ago very
good yeah very good
yeah but but again it's a subjective
thing right the right flavor in terms of
like what you actually look for and they
as they were talking about like your
customers saying they're accustomed to a
certain type of meat like they were
saying that their customers are
accustomed to this they're not
interested in grass-fed anything I
understand that you know they've been
doing that for a long time and creating
that beef that way and I don't think
they should change ever not based on
anything right what's a great place we
get consistency I mean you go there you
get this fantastic steak it's I mean
it's so old worldly to and you get in
there that I mean how long is Peterloo
has been around for God forever forever
yeah it's a hundred 20 years or
something something insane like that
they get the militias is like that at
Montreal is very old steak restaurant
Moises is a famous restaurant in
Montreal and they should you know they
do have their beef program and they
should not change because there's new
conversations happening he knows what
he's doing Lenny Leiter and he should do
you know keep on doing that in a small
restaurant let's say that fred marginal
characters like fred and i own i always
see it like it's not a those restaurants
maybe over public places my restaurant
is my restaurant which i want to do what
i want in right it's not yeah it's not
at I don't we don't listen so much to
the public you know I serve at my
pleasure not you know because other
customers always right it's the
customers off and wrong and I'm always
right you know cuz we can do salmon
play the music and certainly food we
want to when I serve the wines we want
to and if you don't like it you don't
have to come it's art but it's this
restaurant for us that's one of the
things that I learned from watching
Bourdain's original show the no
reservation show and that it changed my
opinion on things because I didn't have
a strong opinion on food before that
other than that I really liked it I
didn't think of it as an art form and
watching his show and seeing the passion
his his appreciation for food and for
the way it's the way it's grown and
brought to table and the production of
it and and then ultimately the flavor of
it and the taste and and his admiration
for chefs and and you guys as well his
his adverb Mauritian for it and his
appreciation for the way everything's
put together made me realize oh this is
an art form it's a craft and and you
know Tony did something Tony was the
most faithful most like we were so lucky
to be on that ship with him you know
that he took us aboard and you could see
he had the same apprenticeship we did
you know like suffering and like big
Bistro kitchens and stuff and you think
about it
the guy he didn't make the promise to
himself that when he'd get rich and
famous he was gonna buy a big house and
not talk to people he helped every cook
not walk out of the kitchen and get
famous but get a voice you know when I
was television show the work he did in
private is not look like a dirty guy
that makes the pasta in the back you
know all of a sudden it's like yeah the
manager in the suit and the owners but
who's the guy in the back yeah you know
no he had appreciation for everybody and
he had a real passion for the process
yeah marginal characters you know
there's lots of commercial restaurants
in the city of Montreal in any given
city that he went to he's able to
isolate let's say the marginal
characters in every city that you know
were you know we're historically bound
kind of fred and i practice a weird
faction of French cooking called cuisine
bourgeoise and only kind of tony and a
handful of other guys couldn't look at
what we do and go huh
fuckers they're up to that knowing
something you're rated really you guys
are the only people like the last of the
mohicans that do this kind of food and
we know ya know we can't stop we got to
keep on with like what a great guy to
get it yeah because nobody does right
nobody understands like you know the
rabbit-hole we're down Tony did you know
the cognoscenti yeah he mean he really
did deeply influence my appreciation for
food the way I think about it and again
treating it as an art form which I just
thought it was just delicious I didn't
think of it it's like oh these guys are
making temporary art to making art that
you're gonna you're gonna enjoy now you
know and you you you you can't put it on
film I mean you can but you're not gonna
get it all you're just gonna want to go
out and experience it yeah ultimately
food is you can't we go and do like we
were asked to do like demonstrations you
know you can go in a big stage is 5,000
people to talk about food or make like
little crackers with smoked salmon
onstage food is not fit for a stage food
is for a table for us to enjoy you know
what a fork and I if we talk about it
and go hunting that's that's what food
is people offers food shows all the time
and I mean I can't doesn't work and it's
like what's the concept well you guys
can be in a pickup truck and you go and
visit your suppliers and maybe I have a
bottle of wine with them after I was
like dude like we worked hard not to
copy or like fellow you know culinarians
yeah you look at for a second SARS TV
producers are out there just like
blatantly proposing the previous show to
you again you know well that's one of
the things right after Anthony died
there was some talk about Thank You
Ramsay doing some very similar show and
the outcry against it was enormous I
mean he was just getting assaulted
online it was crazy that everybody that
I was talking to our agent who did
represents us for our book and she was
saying like that was the same all the
big production companies like are being
paraded
people pitching who's gonna be the next
Tony right
you know I don't want to say that but
one of the character and you guys and
you could take over yeah you could do it
because you guys Trent you know the way
it went in West Virginia and it wasn't
like Republican Democrat he went to
places he's like yeah sure I have my
views but let's break bread you know and
I always said that that like all our
countries are divided on issues but
there's nobody that overlaps them with a
coherent vision everybody loves each
other when there's delicious food on the
table man yeah and guys like you with
like a clear view and irrational and
science-based and evidence-based view on
things and like Tony just have such a
voice now in our countries that it's I
could see you doing a food show food I
don't I'll never do a food show and I
just can't imagine because you ask
questions I like doing shows I mean I
love having guys like you want and
talking about food but it takes a
special type of person to want to travel
300 days a year
you know and that's essentially what
Tony was doing and I think that has a
massive toll it takes a massive toll on
your body it takes a massive toll on
your psyche I don't family everything
it's not healthy there's not enough
melatonin or like CBD or like cleanses
to help you with that
I traveled more than enough already and
I've cut my traveling way back I'm down
to only ten UFC's a year now and I do
you know comedy around that and stand-up
comedy but I consciously make the effort
to travel much less because I just don't
think it's good I just don't think it's
good for you and and also that road life
you know the the drinking and all that
other stuff that comes with it that
accentuates all the problems that you
have with with travel and I think that's
also one of the things that was was
dragging Tony down when he would talk
about the sadness and the loneliness of
being on the road I can't help but from
knowing him and partying with him I
can't help but thought
a lot of that was probably accentuated
by the alcohol consumption and you know
you guys could speaker that now that
you're you're you're clean and you're
not experiencing those rugged hangovers
every morning I was always worried for
Tony that way just said you know that
Hotel living planes trains and
automobiles constantly and it wasn't
like for a year it was like hey it's 12
years it's a sad life it to watch River
Monsters at 11:00 in the morning burping
Jameson and I'm referring to many
occasions in our lives where you're like
you're traveling in a hotel room and you
are in a beautiful place but like just
you feel weird yeah yeah yeah I've taken
steps to mitigate some of that one of
the big ones is I travel with friends I
bring really good comics to work with me
on the road so that when I'm in these
cities I'm in these cities with friends
and we just go it's like they're family
so we we go we'll go eat together we'll
go work out together you know and try to
keep the unhealthy shit to a minimum
plus I'm more of a marijuana enthusiast
than I am a drinker anyway it's legal in
Quebec now which stores it's the entire
country Canada as usual we got a little
bit the special treatment yeah
everywhere else French never on top of
it yeah you can't grow what do you call
it in cannabis cannabis you can't grow
can't grow no and you have to only
consume the government's government so
you know what they did right yeah it's
like you know we have a monopoly liquor
board mm-hmm so we have like stores or
commissioning or Commission yes now we
have the cannabis Commission so what
they did it got legal on October 17th at
midnight the stores were opening October
17th at 10:00 in the morning the cops
were giving tickets to people smoking
weed during that little layover time
because they knew that there's it was
impossible they bought it legally so
some people get ticketed for smoking
illegal weed line for legal weed hey we
just drank the kool-aid on that one I
think you know thanks good we'll part
more money into Medicare well I think
you know ultimately
to relaxing of people's opinions and
ideas about marijuana and what it is but
I also think that marijuana just like
alcohol can be used as a crutch and it
could eventually overcome your life I
like it but I like it I like it every
now and again you know and one of the
things that came out of last year sober
October was taking a whole month off of
it
realizing that hey I don't need it I can
I can function fine without it but it
made me more apprehensive about regular
use like instead of using it everyday
I'll use it a day a week or two days a
week or something like that and I and I
appreciate it more when it does happen
when I when I do get high with my
friends you know on Friday night or
something like that it's like it means
something like we're we're it's almost
like a sacrament like we're experiencing
a little moment together and just having
fun that's the proof that what you just
said is like the proof that you don't
have addiction issues you see I couldn't
be able to prove that I smoked marijuana
responsibly once in my life that I drank
alcohol once in my life that you know
that I did drugs responsibly so I'm
fascinated
I brought some some of our cooks that
were here in LA with us to a restaurant
and we had a beautiful dinner and I
ordered them a bottle of wine and they
barely finished it and I didn't
understand the first only I was like
what do you guys want more as I think of
it I would have paid for nine like right
and they had one and I was just sitting
there I told Fred I go I don't really
what is it like to be in that
environment and watching people glass
over like si si don't hit them they
don't get drunk we used we say that all
the time we used to think that like
everybody when you driving was smashed
no there's only me like that beer
goggles realize that like everybody at
the restaurants generally like nine out
of ten times drink quite responsibly
otherwise it'd be just accidents
everywhere and violence everywhere you
turn right yeah and I realize a lot of
the people that I'm friends with drink
responsibly they can have a glass of
wine with lunch
I've me and Fred opened a bottle of wine
at lunch we go till 10:30 till we
couldn't anymore and then that was it
you know the week look what we did last
time we came to LA we did the Hell's
Kitchen okay we're a judge for showing
ostriches who's disgusting ostriches yes
burger before
Fuddruckers sirs ostrich burger it's
actually delicious it's really bloody
right yeah and there's that thing for
cooking shows like that it's regulated
by the Gaming Commission so they have to
keep the camera rolling and they're not
allowed to touch the dishes because
they're the object of the competition so
you take your break you go to the green
room you wait there cleaning up the
kitchen now the food sits on the past
there like for two hours and you come
back you sit at a table and there's like
rare ostrich tenderloin that's been
sitting for two hours yeah then they
just cook yeah yes and thank ulis in you
you have to like judge like wait a
minute you you're judging food that was
cooked two hours ago TV that's so
fucking and and and I felt like again
that's insulting nice for you for guys
like you know but the thing is like if I
felt so bad because there's people who
put like a job on hold they left their
kids at home yeah I made it I'm in the
casting I was selected you know to be
part of hell kitchen and then we say
something and the guards gonna hate us
right now right no this shows great but
I felt like I felt sad but that all that
to say that whenever we came we stayed
by the the airport you know we we say
that just at the hotel bar 11 o'clock
we're in the whirlpool of the Radisson
Radisson or like sysadmin having
cocktails and encounters that hotel life
can be fucking sad man I know I get it
it's like and now we're like completely
not drinking they got us a room I wear a
sting in the Chateau and I never did I
never thought it'd stay there I would
really love to get drunk at the Chateau
Marmont than you did once but not this
yeah that's like a spa you know I've
been here forever I've never even gone
in that building it's beautiful maybe I
did once I might have I think it was
there once for like a TV thing that I
had
like one of those party things in like
the 90s I think I went once but it's
funny because there's like really like
you know like b-list Hollywood stars
like hanging out at the pool pink
champagne cocktails trying to be cool
smoking blunts and try to pick up girls
Tony used to stay
he's gonna build there when he was
writing he used to stay there he told me
loved he just loved everything about the
feel of it the whole that the dirtiness
the Raleigh hotel with him in Miami he
loved that place too likes dirty spots
the other Riley was fun don't that
that's how Tony was you know he's like
guys I like old food like you do what if
we do a dinner based on like old
transatlantic ship like boats like
dining room you know yeah so yeah sure
gets I Eric repaired and yelled blue
bunch of guys he's like put you up at
the Raleigh we're just gonna do that one
dinner but we're just gonna hang out for
a week after you know and we're in the
pool and the pool every taking
cigarettes oh Tavia was like there with
the kid in a rash guard all the time we
went to a cyborg
Roberto Abreu mm-hmm we went to school
there and I was just like starting in
killer how long have you been doing
jujitsu no I did it for a year solid and
I stopped because at a back surgery Oh
discs yeah yeah well what's uh what's
going on
it's totally fixed but Mikey Strausser
surgery what did you have wrong it was
the nose it was the gnosis so yeah
shortening of the disc yeah and then
compression and then they they went in
and chip some parts out mm-hmm in
retrospect and I spoke to some
rheumatologists and it's interesting
you're talking about like Jordan
Peterson because the autoimmune thing
can be everywhere all right and now that
my doctor says like maybe celiac causes
inflammation and yes so many places
that's what I would say and all that
like maybe the drinking to that it's
inclination towards abuse you know this
inclination towards depression this you
know back problem this it's all related
to that and again the proof is in the
pudding I don't eat bread I don't eat
sweets very little I mostly meat and I
feel
hundred times better I said I don't give
a fuck if it's in my head so sober now
four months five months well so it works
I don't think that it's in your head but
it's definitely been proven that all
those foods cause inflammation but I do
think that jiu-jitsu in particular is
ruthless on your back because of the
torsions yeah well it's just you know
big people on top you're moving it back
at very and very few people strengthen
their back that's a big issue and after
we're done here I'm going to take you
into my gym and I'm gonna show you some
machines that I bought specifically
destruct in my back
I've had some disk issues too and the
doctors are pretty adamant about putting
me under the knife and I I just didn't
like the idea of it I've had many
surgeries I've had both my knees
reconstructed I know when you need
surgery when you don't and the more I
looked into it the more I realized that
there's doctors that they they have a
hammer so everything is a nail yeah like
oh that's a nail and we just fucking
whack that thing they're not like oh
you're gonna have to change your diet
you're gonna have to lose some weight
you're gonna have to strengthen all
those muscles around your back and if if
you do do that I find that the results
are superior in many cases yeah it's a
combination like yoga works wonderfully
fantastic yoga decompression of the
spine is critical because you're always
compressing you're always like well
these chairs were sit again these are
chairs from a company called fully and
they're called capisco z' and these are
ergonomically knows we've been sitting
in this place
it's two-and-a-half hours in the podcast
now we don't my back's aren't hurt yes
they're they feel good too
they're comfortable as like so I knew
there was a solution how to find the
solution luckily this car this company
contacted me and sent us these chairs
this is what we needed I try to fucking
shitload of chairs before that but it
was the same thing with exercises I I
knew there was a solution I had to
figure out what it was I tried
decompression I tried a bunch of
different forms of decompression I
figured out the best ones you know I
have those those things yeah will you
hang by your ankles those what the fuck
is the name of that company hooks know
the upside-down thing yeah
god dammit they're a sponsor the podcast
sex swings tea
Teeter Teeter makes those like just
relaxing in those Hank we have one back
there you clamp your ankles in just
touch back just stretch out again and
then there's a bunch of different
exercises that I do with yoga that
stretch your back out as well we're in a
constant state of compression right
constant gravity constant pushing you
down and with garlic me I'm always
lifting weights to some get these heavy
compression compression pushing up and
I've got a spent as much time
lengthening as you do pushing down and
you also have to stretch everything out
because the more your hamstrings are
tight it's gonna pull down in your back
a lot of people that have back pains
it's connected feet angle looking tight
hamstrings yeah I have a theory to that
like a lot of things starts in school
you know because you look at kids I have
two boys and one daughter you know Henry
Ivan in Eleanor and they 5 7 9 they can
do monkey bars pull-ups muscle ups you
know like they do judo they play hockey
they're very active but school the way
that physically as classroom is designed
is wrong it's like putting them in a
cast for the next 15 years and then
they're gonna come out of high school
like I was unable to climb a rope unable
to do monkey bars unable to do anything
right and then they're gonna go to more
school and sit down four more times ya
know so it doesn't get enough physical
activity and not even close no and not
even the education towards it not even
the education nutrition it's right and
they get graded and evaluated on how
well they listen and gym class you know
which is completely insane yeah it
really is I mean it just that's making
them sit down for all that time during
the day we're just preparing them for
some job that's gonna be unnatural in
the first place making good little
taxpayers oh and look look at it - this
is a model of school that was based on
like religious schools you know and and
like all Catholic schools let's say in
Quebec how did you keep them from like
being distracted you know the ruler and
the fingers you go to the corner the
leather strap now we haven't changed the
classroom the schedule and the
curriculum barely but there's no more
strap so like okay we we haven't changed
anything
like it's normal that if particularly
little boys don't listen in school that
well we have to find a way we have to
redesign school from like the schedule
the design of the classroom the hallways
the introduction you know like they have
to bring restaurants back into school
like cafeteria and all that no but like
cafeterias and I don't know if it's you
to talk with Jeff Bridges about that
because he's in the liked school lunches
thing and the problem with school
lunches is that if you subsidize half
the kids then you have a kid with like a
badge here that says like poor you know
yeah so the only way to do that and I
know some people are a bit
anti-socialist but you have to feed all
the kids
it's like crucial I mean the idea that
that's a problem I mean Jesus Christ
we're talking about food and and also
the sense of community that's
established when everybody eats together
you're gonna know you're gonna create
this rift between students where you
establish that one student is poor than
the other one's just gonna fuck them up
already you know it's gonna already make
them insecure let's yeah yeah yeah the
labor force with the kids yeah like not
to say that we're made the kids work but
it's really be a learning experience and
people can take their turns
preparing family meals inside of the
school system is a valuable tool and if
it was done and handled with respect and
appreciation if they have classes
perhaps that showed how important food
is I mean maybe even show an episode of
No Reservations or you know or parts
unknown and you know show how people can
appreciate food and what food really is
and then how great it would be I mean
and also it would open their eyes to the
possibility of food is a career of you
know of getting into the same position
that you guys are in I mean this is
something that's never discussed me what
was the last time a kid was encouraged
to become a chef you know it's like a
stand-up comedian you know you never get
encouraged a comedian they just call you
a fuck up and try to put you on drugs it
never comes out when they do a survey
and you know 90% of our labor for us
inside the restaurants is you could
anybody who cooks inside the restaurants
is someone who didn't work inside the
traditional school system you know we we
employ dropouts
yeah yeah but brilliant you know we've
there's brilliant people on the team
they just the school system did not work
for them well that's the same thing with
both of my jobs whether it's the UFC or
whether it's stand-up comedy every one
that I'm close with is a fuckup in the
traditional sense like we didn't none of
us fit in there's very few people that
get into stand-up comedy that were
thriving in some other career and most
of us were extremely frustrated with
traditional environments and most of us
didn't do well in school because we felt
confined and just what couldn't wait to
get nightmares about going back to
school do you have a BD as a child I'm
sure I got it all whatever the fuck it
is whatever it is that gives you energy
that makes you better at stuff and I got
that you know you think they'll call it
a bad thing and say like you can't
concentrate well I'm fucking bored you
sorta sit right nut you treated me
something that I can concentrate on give
me something that I actually enjoy I got
a lot of energy it's not that there's
something wrong with me said I have no
interest and what they're selling and
it's being sold by some underpaid under
motivated person who really is just
following some sort of a curriculum and
they have to do that because they want
to keep their job this is what kids are
being subjected to all across the world
in the most fertile time of their life
in terms of their imagination their
creativity and their free time the
frontal cortex is a sponge they're ready
to take everything in the league yeah I
mean it's just no one would ever say to
some kid who's cracking jokes in class
and running around being a fool no one
would ever say hey you ever thought
about being a comedian like no one says
that yeah this never comes up but
meanwhile everybody loves comedians
people love to go see comedy but nobody
ever says to some fuck up kid hey man
you might be a comic you know it just
doesn't doesn't come up it'll do the
test and like David was supposed to be a
travel agent I was I was supposed to be
a golf pro and won something ya know and
then according to the questionnaire and
one of my friend who flies planes
suppose I think to be a you know a folly
artist make sounds of horses with
coconuts and stuff ease
like yeah yeah that's right that's it
they told them after the questioning
what the fuck kind of questionnaire do
you guys have in Canada the success of
restaurant though you have to think
though is due to a lot of very sad
people that have gone through the
academic process I have a
disproportionate amount of lawyers and
professionals and people who wear suits
that love to come to the restaurant and
drink why and let the dogs stop barking
inside their heads because they're
really fucking miserable yeah you know
when you spent your whole day in the
72nd floor of the IBM tower downtown and
your cubicle punching data into graphs
and taking a licking from your boss
who's also a suit just a constant you
can't wait to get to Joe beef and you
know relax or like the Michael Douglas
movie there enough Oh enough with is
with jell-o jiggler me know the movie
with JLo where she he avenges some
ex-boyfriend that like dramatizes her
and she bet it's great I love those
movies what okay there's something about
airplanes I don't know the Attic the
altitude and the plane that's like
stupid movies are great in the sky
nothing lasts two days Discovery's quite
the movie buff he loves the awning he'll
who's like that's a beautiful movie I
was like what I don't even know what
that's about
what's Notting Hill about that's the
movie with you Grant oh Christ
I wouldn't I can't remember what it's
about you know what I love I love the
night that the Roxbury start drinking
again man we were just you know the
Chateau is right by the Roxbury yeah it
was yeah I couldn't wait to just get out
of the car go walk there take a picture
of it and just like try to show like I
sent a picture to everyone nobody
reacted dude it's the Roxbury mmm you
see you saw that movie night at the
Roxbury yeah yeah
and for me to travel there is
do you like that did you like that movie
yeah I loved it really yeah yeah
interesting same reactions yeah what
else is your favorite movie alone in the
wilderness Nick prenta key that's great
you saw that movie the guy that whittles
uh hinges for his house in Alaska oh
that's a watched view really just like
once a year you watch really alone in
the wilderness Nick prenta key can you
bring that up on the thing
what is that do you know Jimmy the guy
runs away thanks thing no no no no I say
Alaska the guy who just moves and lives
in the woods with the rest of the French
love Jerry Lewis now they plan on
Vermont PBS as a fundraiser every year
Wow Phil dry pod and films himself and
he he carves everything you need hunts
everything oh okay okay okay I did not
know this guy's name see I thought you
were talking about a movie this like a
documentary
Oh myself made dropped off there with an
axe and then he builds a house and then
he kills a goat and then you know yeah I
do remember this guy in interviews that
I think I probably saw on YouTube but
yeah he builds his own house and log
cabins and shit yeah yeah this guy yeah
it's like such a beautiful like did you
guys ever see that Vice piece about the
guy who lives in the Arctic hind mo
hindmost Arctic adventure no no fuckin
amazing man it's a vice guide to travel
peace where this guy got a very small
cabin in the Arctic in like the 1970s
and he's been there since the only thing
he's ever seen from 9/11 is some
photographs he had no idea what's
happening when it happened he is he
still loved Michael Jackson I don't know
but this is it this this guy lives alone
in Alaska with his wife in the Arctic
national refuge and you have to get in
with a floatplane and he just hunts
caribou and lives with his family his
wife is Inuit and they they have
children together and children leave and
eventually went on to college
I mean it's fucking crazy one of their
kids was 2 years old died in
a canoe accident the canoe fell over in
the kid fell into the river and they
revisit the spot at the time of her
birthday and it's really intense but
this guy really believes that people are
there
there's happier and healthier when they
live a hunter-gatherer lifestyle and
calorie restriction I mean all he does
is eat caribou I mean the guy is out
there eating caribou and during the time
where they're filming this his cabin and
his caribou stash gets attacked by a
grizzly bear and he shoots the grizzly
bear on film he chases it down to the
night and blasts it one of the grizzly
bears and he eaten one of his dogs I
mean this motherfuckers out there living
but he like he's a very smart guy he's
not what you would think when you think
of someone like this you think of
someone who is some weird kind of inbred
half-wit who's living up there no he's
very intelligent very slightly introvert
baby maybe introverted for sure what he
doesn't seem to have a hard time talking
to people so I don't know if he's
introverted but I mean he's definitely
restricted his is access to dialogue I
mean he's out there alone in the forest
by himself but he makes a very
compelling point that there's a natural
feeling that he gets from doing this
where everything kind of falls into
place he's constantly getting exercise
because he's hiking and chasing after
these caribou but there's natural human
reward systems that are in place in his
DNA for hunting and gathering and
cooking his food over an open fire and
the way he lives he just he just thinks
it's the way people really are designed
to live we're absolutely not meant to
live piled on top of each other within
you know 10 a million of us in a square
mile in the island of Manhattan you know
yeah absolutely do you remember when
there was the floods in Manhattan yes
all the money in the world couldn't get
you out right you have to walk across
the Brooklyn Bridge to leave Manhattan
yeah and everybody else yeah you know
yeah and there was a word real worried
because of climate change that was gonna
be happening every year now people like
is this the new normal
I'm over Shane Smith that some piece of
that's a walkout yeah yeah yeah yeah
Shane had to walk out he had some piece
on vice where they were detailing the
inside of his apartment building like
the fucking thing was completely flooded
like six feet high and water you know
and people weren't worried like this is
going to be what's happening on a
regular basis now like this climate
change thing has changed
I've heightened the sense of a you know
sense of three kids I it's something
that I think about it's something that I
have ready you know I bought a generator
I have yeah
I checked the batteries the rechargeable
batteries for all of the equipment that
I have I own solar panels I own a duffel
bag full of everything that I need to
throw in the back of my pickup truck
grab my kids and I know which way to
drive away from the city to go to the
cabin yeah it's something I've planned
just because I'm the ward of these small
humans whom I love yeah you know it's
funny you talked about like restriction
again and then and the thing just I'm
thinking of preparing you know and the
most common thing that people prepare is
food you know and they prepare cans and
cans and cans of food but still they eat
so much of that food that the best way
to prepare the best way to prepare would
be to start to eat less and and learn
how to live at 1,700 calories you know
and learn how to live with the people
around you because if you're gonna spend
like two months in the bunker or in a
bug-out location or whatever you're not
some like asshole to your kids and your
friends and the family and people with
you one of the things that happens to
people this is really fascinating when
when disasters do strike is everyone
gets a lot friendlier you know and this
is one thing that I've experienced
myself this week because when we got
evacuated it was 2:30 in the morning on
Thursday and there is fire rocks throw
from my house and I'm not talking a
little bit of fire I'm talking just
hundreds of acres of fire I mean it was
just roaring over we start to see houses
excited see the gas lines explode houses
burst into flames and it was right down
the street so we're seeing this and you
know where we got outside we're in the
driveway the neighbors come over
everyone
talking what he gonna do I go we're
getting the fuck out of here and he's
like have they given the evacuation
orders I said no we haven't but I go
it's right there man
I go we gotta go I go if it if we're
wrong we come back in the house is still
here that's okay
but you want to get out of these things
quickly because they can turn south
quickly but there was a sense of
camaraderie and community that that
happens and then quite a few of us all
went to the same hotel including my
friend Tom Segura and his wife and his
family went to this hotel too with some
of my friends from this neighborhood who
were all there huddled in together and
but there was there wasn't people were a
little extra friendly there was a in
this is like there was the same kind of
feeling after 9/11 when I was in New
York City there was people a little bit
more friendly we felt that during the
ice storm back in the day people were
like assessing the street that we live
on and then they go well who's got a
wood-burning stove I know Roger does
come on and then people would go to
Roger's house and all of a sudden all
these neighbors that just wave at each
other were all at Roger's house by the
wood-burning stove going back to the
houses to get blankets planning sleeping
arrangements planning food arrangements
and assessing each other
giving each other their personal space
and learning to how to speak to each
other in a respective matter that we
might have to do this for several days
yeah through the best through tragedy a
sense of community was built somewhat or
reinforced for a brief moment in time
yeah which made going back through our
regular lives on that Street better yeah
you know yeah yeah if you ever rid of
Sebastian youngers tribe no no it's a
great book and he kind of talks about
that about how in part situations of
extreme stress and when people are
really pushed those people bond together
and they find that these are the
happiest times of their life people that
even go to war they find that they miss
the camaraderie of the bunker they meant
to miss the trenches being in the
trenches they missed the camaraderie of
being together huddled up not knowing
what's going to happen in the future but
depending upon each other for their very
lives that's a thing that happens in
very very very busy kitchens yeah you
know a bunch of no education guys out of
cooking school working a difficult
restaurant line you know we're working
six guys on six four burner stove every
night a difficult menu with a difficult
chef and a very busy restaurant those
those hours you know from 6:00 p.m.
until 10 p.m. at night like it's
intimate its intimate like you know
you're bending over to get into the
stove to get a chicken out I'm grabbing
something out of the fridge my nose is
in your butt your nose is in my butt you
know I need your knife you need my knife
it's very very very close quarter is
often like some of my strongest
relationships some of his strongest
relationships are you know the bond that
I built with guys that I've cooked on
lines whether in Europe or here are
unbreakable you know these guys got your
back Tony talked a lot about that you
know yeah I think people are better off
when they're struggling no I really do I
mean I think they're better off when
they're there they're you know when life
creates challenges and there's there's
things to overcome and there's
difficulties to get through and there's
real pressure involved in these and
there's physical activity involved these
pressures rowing on the galley yeah
Centurion and the cat-o'-nine-tails
looming over you well all the years you
guys have been in business now what what
do you look forward to now like what
what keeps you going now you have this
established restaurant this amazing menu
and you know you have fans of your
restaurant like myself what keeps you
going tiny restaurant where David and I
cook you know like you saw the movie the
French Connection yes
you see when gene Hackman's on the other
side of the road it's like freezing in
New York he's in a deli with a piece of
pizza and a shitty coffee is little
leather shoes on the icy pavement and
then the French gangsters are in the
bistro in the eating like snails and
eclairs and like all the food that comes
in the little crock pots on the cart at
the table
if we could open a place like that for
like 16 customers that we have the key
only we decide to open whenever we want
and we don't lose money that's all
I lied like I want to build with Fred a
tiny little French restaurant that we do
what we want a 16 seats yeah all right I
can take a 4 or 8 or close it or just a
toy
to just practice this skill that we've
learned all of these years to do this
very very weird old forgotten food
that's not cool but that I adore you
know what what are you like what is in
the back your head that you don't bring
to Joe beef up you know a one that
everybody would know but to do a proper
lamb wellington served for two people
and a little trolley they still bring
out that 12 cheese's on the little
trolley to have a trolley just of DS st5
you know crazy I'll call to do crepes
tableside to do a duck Lombe - with
orange sauce tableside for - you saw
with Tony we went to the flambe place in
Quebec City in the first show and the
first parts unknown and it was wonderful
like little land goose flambe and like
there were skills like we want to be
able to like this this morning we'll do
tartare and only makes tableside and
that's it or Dover sole so really
practice hospitality at the level that
it used to be back in the day to bring
out the very old porcelain very
beautiful silver not ostentatious way
just almost in like a kitschy romantic
itchy romantic kind of nostalgic
nostalgic sense what you know to build a
restaurant from the 20s you know do that
food handwritten menu flowers on it you
know like yeah the appreciation that you
guys have for it is very contagious
it really is dining is great like you
know candlelit dining you know it's you
know heavy velvet woodwork silver trays
copper
there's a hemingway-esque
who's the other big guy with orson
welles never see those Morrison well
interviews at the hotel Pierre in Paris
those are just brilliant like you want
to just eat yourself to death at Hotel
Pierre what he did exactly it's the only
way we could build a time travel machine
right like read about it it's fun then
you go to museum when they see you you
see like silverware from sunken ship
yeah that's nice but you'll never travel
back in time nor do I want to get polio
you know there's great great benefits to
living now and then now in here well the
art of it yeah and and the beauty of it
it's like we've grown up watching like
this old house Victory Garden all those
shows on PBS right we're huge fans and
the beauty of this is we can build a
restaurant like that put our hands so we
it's just a matter of like this is it
this year is it next year you know well
yeah we're doing it now by the way yeah
are you yeah well I bought a farm and
he's gonna read I bought a farm
I bought a but Fred a farm for me the
gag is do it I think down in st. our
mother I bought a little farm right on
the Vermont border but there's a summer
kitchen part this has beautiful brick
wood burning oven situation and big
window an old factory wrought iron
window the room is just begging to have
like three tables of four or three
tables of four and a little stove and a
zinc bar and I don't know he's been
cracking out he's talking about going
down there in January and starting to
build it this is the polar opposite of
the theme restaurant in Vegas TGIF yeah
I'm not just that but like the the
celebrity chef as you're going down the
escalator at the airport there's a giant
billboard of this latest did you ever
hear this story about the first either
brothers well no so they called Fred one
day and they said we're coming to
Montreal we'd love to meet you guys
yeah okay what's going on you know we're
not open for like it was this that's
just last year last week after they sold
I think that but they bought the palms
great guys love those guys it's fast
okay it's wonderful you get a hold of
you
so they got a whole fly into privately
to the to the airport Montreal three
Escalades roll into Joe beef at noon out
of Tuesday all the boys get out plus
help and you know the crew that
surrounds them citizens yeah we make a
table at 10 we all sit down Lorenzo
starts off first I'd like to let you
guys know that Joe beef is my favorite
restaurant and I'm like what
you know this dump you're Lorenzo
Fertitta like all over the world you
live in Las Vegas everything is at your
beck and call like you live in you know
so that was flattering you know and we
prepared a little dinner for them a
little lunch and do we talk then they
pitched us to take over one of the rooms
and the palms I'm stairs and of course I
was flattering we had a wonderful
meeting but we knew right away as we
were having the meeting that that was
not for us and it was never gonna happen
we have young children we're in a bad
place to at the time tough in our life
you know still drinking still yeah it
was pretty dark but it was nice and
flattering and I think Fred moved them
on to Marc Vetri who eventually did the
project from Philadelphia and in
retrospect yeah I was nice flattering
but we wouldn't do that right there's no
way we couldn't do Joe beef anywhere
else you know people don't eat the
dining public doesn't exist unless
unless it's on my street so Montrose is
such a difference whether the idea is
like when before they offered any room
there I said is there like a
decommission laundromat in the back
that's where employees only that we said
all the wrong things about 800 square
feet that we can make a five table
french restaurant
there is no hitch against the top floor
of the pods and we're asking for the
door next to the garbage container in
the alley with no windows and they were
looking out it's like we were insane
you want a five table French restaurant
yeah yeah Lorenzo get his brother and
his brother was looking at Lorenzo like
what did you bring me here we sent them
some books now whoa I'm sure they're
happy it's such a funny funny way of
responding to that we want to give you
the top floor the palms in Vegas do a
fuckin 800 800 square foot room in the
back alley that nobody can access I want
to make it so expensive but basketball
players think it's too much money
yeah well that would be a very
interesting spot and I'm sure it would
if you did create something like that or
someone did an unbelievably exclusive
spot that literally has 20 seats
available in a night and they only open
for one sitting right and we want to
build the what's the movie the Roxbury
another.we what about the French
Connection that restaurant oh the other
one with JLo what's that one deeply
enough if Star maids made the Manhattan
yeah I mean I guarantee if someone did
do something like that particularly
because of Vegas it's all about who you
know and who you I mean if you can get
in you know you can get into Joe lambe
oh it's Joe lambe is in Vegas right
behind the garbage container the leaky
one next to the grease trap yeah girls
and their Jimmy Choos have to step in
these puddles of grease love Boutin yeah
on their way to the back then it would i
rana CLE enough it would be probably the
hot spot in Vegas I know Joe what
Lorenzo didn't get it obviously well
when they took over the Palms I was
excited I know that nine Steakhouse
there was excellent I haven't been there
in years but I used to be a great place
but Mark who's there Marc Vetri's an
excellent cook yeah he's really involved
in like solid charity things I think
he's also brown or black belt in jujitsu
really yeah yeah yeah resourceful dude
yeah so is the restaurant open I think
this week it was wow that's fantastic
that's awesome Wow and his food is
delicious
I try it out you know yeah batteries in
Philadelphia is a an institution we
opened like there was one thing when
when we what was it what was the story
of the lobster spaghetti you know we
took title kind of like there was a
story in Bon Appetit magazine about love
at my Marc Vetri doing a lobster
spaghetti and fighting with his dad
about removing a table to put a meat
slicer and I think they have 24 seats
and he bought a nice red slicer and he
said we're taking out four seats and now
we're down to 20 seats his dad thought
he was insane and but he insisted that
you know they have 20 seats instead of
24 we that story was endearing to Fred
and I and he was doing a lobster
spaghetti in his Philadelphia restaurant
at the time so when we opened Joe beef
one of the first items on the menu was
our version of the lobster spaghetti
that Marc Vetri was doing and just a
simple homage to that story that's great
later years later we met him and we told
him the story and became friends that's
amazing so why did it take four seats
what did this thing look like well you
know you seen those big Italian red
Burkle meat slicers no so did he do it
just because it would add to the
ambience to have this cool thing yeah
and Italy this is a pretty standard
piece of equipment that you'll have on
the bars as it varies it turns slow it's
a big blade then rotates slowly it's
very very sharp so it doesn't pinwheel
yeah it doesn't melt the fat of the hem
right so you don't get this white film
so it makes like perfectly thin cool
slices of perfect hem are their gorgeous
objects like we have a couple now we
have a blue one and we have a red one
gorgeous John one for me Jaime if I
wanted like cutting meat that was nice
yeah oh you know I saw one of these in
Italy yeah sure they're all over the
place yeah when when I was in Italy I
saw one of these they were they were
making sandwiches with it yeah but
that's a ten thousand fifteen thousand
dollar machine yeah so when you when you
remove four seats from your restaurants
and put one of those in you kind of like
you know you stepping up there on the
wrong side of business joke but you're
in Joby points you're on the right side
of business
you guys have something going on tonight
right no no no no we did last night we
cooked at animal last night Las Vegas
cool yeah those guys are grey is awesome
and a little weird I've never been yeah
John and Vinnies know things yeah
they're good boys they have John and
Vinny's across the street animal is a
restaurant I kind of opened around the
same time Joe beef we were friends from
back then they can't have too much you
all a bunch of times I brought them to
all like the weird we're all kindred
spirits it's like the same yeah I say we
process the restaurant business like we
practice the restaurant business the
restaurants so similar to ours and weird
ways and their relationship Jon and
Vinny is like very Dave and Fred it's
strange like it's a la job Dave you have
these sort of connections with these
fellow like-minded chefs all the Pirates
on Tony's captain
Tony's pirate ship man yeah yeah well he
was the one who introduced me to you
guys yeah he told me about you guys
listen Joe beef surviving the apocalypse
is it out now yes sir yeah in a week
24th right forth so November I have it
already you fucks sorry but you're gonna
have to wait but please go out go buy it
support and if you're in Montreal go
visit my best restaurant Joe beef you
guys are the shit thank you Joe so much
very very much
thank you
[Music]